Art Alert: Renowned Russian pianist to perform in Cairo
World famous Russian pianist and winner of prestigious International Tchaikovsky Competition, Andrei Gavrilov, will perform at Cairo's historic Manasterly Palace on Sunday, 10 February
Cairo's Manasterly Palace will host a performance by Russian pianist Andrei Gavrilov, the first prize winner at the International Tchaikovsky Competition in 1974, on Sunday, 10 February.
Acclaimed by many reviewers as "One of the world's great concert pianists," protégé of Richter whohailed him as genius, Andrei Gavrilov is son of the known Russian painter of the 20th century's, Vladimir Gavrilov, and Armenian pianist, Assanetta Eguiserian. 
Andei Gavrilov's talent was apparent from the very young age and was considered a piano superstar when in his teens. As his career was booming his life was not deprived from intimidations by the Soviet regime unsatisfied with Gavrilov's stances towards them.
In 1974, Gavrilov won the first prize at the prestigious International Tchaikovsky Competition. Following this award, he recorded Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1 in B-flat minor with Melodiya, the state-owned major record company of the Russia (former Soviet). In 1979, Gavrilov was asked by famous conductor Herbert von Karajan to record with him the same concerto with Berliner Philharmonic, an orchestra with which Gavrilov performed a year earlier. Unfortunately, the artistic coupling between Gavrilov and Karajan has never been accomplished,as Soviet authorities confiscated Gavrilov's passport.
It was only in mid-1980s that Gavrilov was given back his "free passport," under Gorbachev's more liberal regime and resumed his overseas appearances, obtaining German citizenship.
In mid-1990s Gavrilov stepped down from the spotlight, froze his concerts and limited recordings. Though part of his decision was due to an overwhelming strain and lack of artistic freedom in the field, Gavrinov does not hide numerous artistic and personal difficulties he was experiencing at this time and which contributed to the whole climate of pressure.
Today, Gavrilov performs less frequently than in earlier years, while his appearances continue to mesmerize audiences around the world.
His concert in Cairo on 10 February is one of the most unique opportunities for the Egyptian audiences to witness Chopin and Prokofiev performed by the international piano master.
Manasterly Palace is home to the concerts organized by the International Music Centre (IMC). The IMC, with help from the Culture Development Fund, has been attracting audiences to hear remarkable musicians hand-picked by Ramzi Yassa, renowned Egyptian and international pianist and artistic director at the centre.
Programme:
Sunday, 10 February at 8pm
Manasterly Palace, Rhoda Island, next to the Nilometre, Cairo
For tickets contact Cultural Development Fund, tel (02) 27357001 / 27354234 or Manasterly Palace, tel (02) 23631537
 