Ahly coach supports Egypt's Bradley, excludes selling Abou-Treika
Ahly coach believes star Mohamed Abou-Treika  will not be sold easily, vows to cooperate with Egypt's American coach Bob Bradley for 2014 World Cup
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry said it is difficult to sell team star Mohamed Abou-Treika for UAE's Bani Yas, insisting that he will offer full support for Egypt's technical staff in their campaign for securing a spot at 2014 World Cup.
The 35-year-old Pharaohs player, who has joined Bani Yas this winter from the Cairo giants on a six-month loan deal, has quickly managed to prove his worth in UAE, as he scored twice in two appearances before being injured recently.
Recent reports claimed that the UAE outfit will be seeking the player's services on a permanent basis, which is unlikely according to his coach. El-Badry was obliged to let him go on loan in February due to the club financial crisis and uncertainty of Egyptian league's future.
"It is difficult to sell Abou-Treika to Bani Yas. I think both Bani Yas board and the player himself are not eager to do that," El-Badry told the club's official TV channel late Monday.
"Anyway, we will wait and see what will happen in the future," he added.
Abou-Treika, who joined Ahly in 2004, has earned a cult status among Ahly's fans after leading the club to a host of titles since his arrival.
He steered the club to seven Egyptian Premier League titles, two Egypt Cups and three African Champions League triumphs, among other accolades.
He has scored 79 league goals for Ahly and finished as the competition’s top scorer in 2006 with 18 goals.
Full support for Egypt's World Cup campaign
Abou-Treika was recently called up alongside other 11 foreign-based players for the Pharaohs upcoming World Cup qualifier match against Zimbabwe on 26 March.
Ahly coach knows how critical is the coming period for the national team for coach American coach Bob Bradley, who has vowed to secure Egypt their first ticket to the most prestigious global competition since 1990.
"I will cooperate with Bradley and offer him full support in the important coming period for our national team," concluded El-Badry.
Egypt topped Group G in the qualifiers with six points from two games, three ahead of second-placed Guinea. Zimbabwe and Mozambique have one point each. 
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 