Zamalek top Petrojet to extend best league start in 9 yrs
Defeating Petrojet 3-0, Zamalek keep best Egypt league start since 2003-2004, gaining 12 points from four games
Zamalek maintained best league start since 2003, getting the full mark of 12 points to remain in the lead of Group B, in the new formation system league. Petrojet have four points from three matches.
Despite the club’s financial crisis and a players' one day strike
over unpaid salaries
on Thursday, Zamalek,
led by Brazilian manager Jorvan Vieira,
earned its seventh league win over Petrojet from a total of 12 matches between the two teams since the Petroleum club joined the league in 2006. Petrojet won three times and the two teams drew twice.
Behind closed doors for security concerns, striker Abdoulaye Cisse scores the first goal in the first half stoppage time, as the backline of the Suez-based team trembled after Zamalek's successive strikes.
Ahmed Gaafar scored his third goal this season in the 73rd minute after keeper Mahdy Soliman stopped Nouri El-Said’s long shot from outside the area to find Gaafar's right foot.
Ahmed Eid Abdel-Malek netted his first league goal with Zamalek, 82, from a smart cross from Gaafar after a fine pass from Cisse’s substitute Hazem Emam.
Keeper Abdel-Wahed El-Sayed shined in the 74th minute in his first test to stop a corner kick from Petrojet.
Defender Mahmoud Fathallah, suffering fatigue, was substituted by Ahmed Magdy 13 minutes before the final whistle.
Egypt skipper and the world’s most capped player, Ahmed Hassan, substituted Gaafar in the 86th minute.
Gaining momentum from the 7-0 Africa Champions League win over Chad’s Gazelle last week in round of 32, in the presence of a limited number of fans, Zamalek are bidding for first league trophy since the 2003-2004 season.
The match was delayed for over half an hour due to the absence of police to secure the match. However, the Interior Ministry sent security forces to secure the competition after negotiations with the Egyptian Football Association (EFA).
“The Interior Ministry informed the Egyptian Football Association (EFA) a week ago that the police will only secure Cairo-based matches but not the Suez match that was relocated to take place in Cairo,” Interior Ministry operations manager Hisham Disouky told an Egypt TV programme.
In the ‘martyrs league’, all Suez matches are to be held in Cairo due to security concerns. The competition was suspended for over a year, following the death of 70 Ahly fans in February 2012 Port Said stadium clashes.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 