Businessman temporarily closes Alexandria factories amid strikes
Chairman of Faragalla Group says he will close his factories because of security concerns; workers refute accusations of violence
Mohamed Farag Amer, chairman of processed foods giant Faragalla Group, announced on Thursday the continued closure of all the group's factories in Alexandria amid labour unrest.
Faragalla group is a private-sector company established in 1973 by Mohamed Farag Amer. Under the group there are three separate food processing companies, encompassing 22 production lines, according to the group's website.
The group's factories have been closed since Wednesday, according to sources who spoke to Ahram Online.
In an open letter to Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, Amer slammed the administration for failing to curb what he called "cheap bargaining tactics, extortion, moral deviance, and unjustified pressures in contempt of the law," on the part of the workers. 
He also accused the president of failing to provide "on the ground, practical support" in labour disputes, as he had promised he would in a private meeting with Amer and other investors the day before his announcement.
Amer said he was blackmailed by some of the workers, who threatened their colleagues with weapons to get them to stop work. He said he had received no support from the security forces.
The workers gave a different account of events to Ahram Online.
"We have been on a partial strike since last Sunday, with some of the workers holding a protest in front of the factory gate," a worker who wanted to remain anonymous told Ahram Online.
The main demand of the workers is to get a share of last year's profits, as Egyptian law stipulates workers are entitled to.
The workers received a profit share for the first time in 2011, after the revolution.
They are also demanding permanent contracts for the workers who do not yet have them, as they say the group's administration has shortened their temporary contracts from 12 months to 6 months.
"The workers are demanding permanent contracts with the company and their share of the annual profits," said Hussein Ragab, a member of the workers union at Faragalla Group.
"These demands are not impossible," said Ragab, who considered the chairman's reaction to be excessive.
Ahram Online spoke to several workers by phone, who said that it was the factory administration that pushed five pro-administration workers to threaten the protesters with arms last Monday.
"We filed a complaint at Borg Al-Arab police station against the five workers and the administration," said the workers.
On Wednesday, the factory buses that transport the workers daily did not arrive at the morning bus stops.
Many of the workers used public transport to get to work, only to find all the group's factories in the industrial city of Borg Al-Arab, near Alexandria, closed.
The workers went to the police station but were surprised to find a complaint against them by the group's administration, accusing them of provocation and use of violence.
"A minority of workers have been hindering operations in the group's factories for three days, but most of us want to work and are happy," Ahmed Rashad, Director of Human Resources at Faragalla, told Ahram.
A source in the company's management estimated the number of striking workers to be around 50, although workers said that the number was close to 700.
To reach a solution, the ministry of manpower held a meeting on Wednesday evening with representatives of the workers as well as with the administration, including the legal consultant of the group.
Alaa Awad, spokesperson of the ministry of manpower, said that the present members of Faragalla administration approved some of the workers' demands, which included getting a share of annual profits from 2012 and improvement in the quality of the daily meal given to the workers.
"Farag Amer has to give the final consent for this agreement soon," said Awad.
However, Amer refused to re-open the factories until the situation is secure.
Awad clarified that the decision to close factories is not easy, according to Egyptian regulations.
"No one can wake up in the morning and take such a decision. To do so, an investor should file a petition; a committee from the ministry has then to examine the reasons. If there are problems with other governmental bodies, we try to solve it; it is a whole process, as we have to protect the workers' rights too," he said.
Awad expects the group's factories to reopen on Saturday.
An investor present at the meeting between Farag Amer with Egypt's president told Al-Ahram Arabic that Amer had demanded a "state of emergency" be imposed on Alexandria.
Faragalla Group's industrial operations are located in Borg Al-Arab, 50km from the city.
Amer also told journalists that his group has lost LE70 million during the three days of the strike.
Ragab, who attended negotiations brokered on Thursday afternoon by the ministry of manpower with the management of the company, appeared confident that the dispute would be resolved and the closure decision revoked "within a few hours."
 