IUMS Statement Demanding Release of Political Leaders in Bangladesh
The International Union for Muslim Scholars condemns repressive action against peaceful demonstrators, demands Bangladesh government expedite the release of all political leaders.
The IUMS, its chairmanship, general secretariat, Board of Trustees, and its wide base of supporting scholars around the world are following closely and with deep concern, the escalating events in the Republic of Bangladesh under the current government, which accuses leaders of Jamaat-e-Islami of committing war crimes during the events of Bangladesh secession, 41 years ago.
We realize that the Bangladesh government is trying those Islamist leaders before exceptional courts, sentencing some of the leaders to death, which caused an uproar of protests among supporters of Jamaat-e-Islami, from all segments of the public, who demanded the release of those leaders, in peaceful well-organized marches, but the government resorted to confrontation with those protests, and dealt with demonstrators in the most atrocious forms of oppression, killing some of them, and throwing about fifty of them in prison, including women, as the government issued a decision referring them for trial.
In light of the foregoing, the IUMS affirms the following:
1 – The IUMS urges the Prime Minister of Bangladesh to release political leaders, to immediately stop use of exceptional courts, which do not have the required religious or legal controls necessary to issue such severe decisions in a case dating back to four decades back, while all evidence points to these being mock trials, meant to achieve clear political purposes.
2 – The IUMS strongly denounces suppression of peaceful demonstrations demanding the release of innocent leaders, scholars and preachers, for the right of peaceful protest is guaranteed to all peoples; and the IUMS calls on the government to provide safety and security for all in order to prevent sedition and strife, and to ward off dangers threatening the country.
3 – The IUMS stresses that confronting peoples with force and violence is futile; the people will inevitably triumph.
4 – The IUMS appeals to Bangladesh government to direct all efforts and resources towards construction and overall national development, and to address economic problems that threaten the country with collapse, prevailing poverty, unemployment and extremely difficult living conditions, after rampant corruption spread in the government, at the expense of the helpless people.
The time has come for this government to serve its citizens, to do its duty towards the people – administering justice, safeguarding freedoms, granting the people dignity, and respecting the sanctity of people’s blood and property. This is how security and safety and good faith are achieved.
5 – The IUMS appreciates efforts of Saudi King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz, Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, Turkish Prime Minister Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the Government of Malaysia, as well as other leaders of Arab and Muslim countries, pressuring the current Bangladesh government.
The IUMS further reminds all Muslim rulers of their historical responsibility towards their fellow leaders of Jamaat-e-Islami and their colleagues, who are currently languishing in the prisons of the Government of Bangladesh, facing the specter of death hanging over them.
6 – The IUMS also appreciates the efforts of international lawyers and human rights groups for their objections to the law of the court; and urges them to do more to prevent the Bangladesh Government from implementing these unjust judgments against innocent leaders.
May God protect our Muslim brothers and sisters in Bangladesh from sedition and strife, and restore security and stability to their country.
Doha: March 3, 2013
Dr. Yusuf Al-Qaradawi
IUMS President
Dr. Ali Al Qaradaghi
IUMS Secretary-General