Egypt mourns Mohamed Yousri Salama
Political figures from across political spectrum offer condolences on death of Mohamed Yousri Salama who died on Sunday aged 39
Political activist and scholar Mohamed Yousri Salama has died aged 39 from a stomach condition.
Salama was spokesperson for the Salafist Nour Party when it emerged as a significant political force after the January 25 Revolution.
He resigned from the party in August 2011 less than three months before it came second to the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party in Egypt's first post-revolution parliamentary elections.
I cannot remain the spokesman for a party that does not represent my views, Salama said at the time.
He later joined Mohamed ElBaradei in founding the liberal Constitution Party.
Many political figures have expressed sadness at Salama’s death.
“The greatest thing about Salama was that he broke the stereotype that one must be either an Islamist or a liberal ... He believed Egypt is for all,” writer and blogger Bassem Sabri told Ahram Online.
He showed all of these stereotypes are meaningless, Sabri added.
“My conversation with him during the Constitution Party’s first meeting remains in my memory. He said the revolution would continue and prevail,” Abdel-Rahman Mansour, founder of the 'We are all Khaled Said' Facebook page, said via Twitter.
Mohamed ElBaradei said Salama's patriotism, morals, humbleness, and advocacy of freedom and dignity for all had made him a role model.
“A true adherent [of Islam] has departed and the so-called Muslims remain,” April 6 Youth Movement wrote on its official Facebook page.
Salafist Nour Party spokesman Nader Bakkar said he had visited Salama on Saturday and kissed his forehead “not knowing it was the last meeting.”
The funeral will take place on Monday at the iconic Al-Qaed Ibrahim mosque in Salama’s hometown of Alexandria.
Salama was born on 1 October 1974 in Alexandria. He studied dentistry until his passion for Arab heritage led him to become a researcher and translator at the Bibliotheca Alexandrina Manuscript Centre.
He authored several books and was a contributor to several Egyptian newspapers, including Al-Shorouk, Al-Masry Al-Youm and Al-Dostour.
 