Syrian actress sparks Cairo melee with poem praising Assad
Syrian actress Raghda angers many at a poetry conference, on Thursday 21 March
55-year old, Cairo-based Syrian actress Raghda, sparked a melee during an Arab Poetry evening that was taking place on Wednesday 20 March at the Supreme Council of Culture located at the Cairo Opera House's vicinity (Cairo Opera House's grounds).
During the evening, the syrian actress surprised guests and audiences with reading a poem she wrote, entitled "Slave Market", in which she praised Syrian president Bashar Al-Assad, who according to her, along with "the free Syrian army" are fighting "hulligans" attempting to seize power in Syria.
Raghda also refered to the unrest in Egypt and somewhat attacked the ruling Muslim Brotherhood regime for its support of the "hooligans" in Syria.
According to Ahram Arabic, an act that aggreviated the crowd and led to verbal and physical assault of the actress to the extent that she was beaten up by six of the youth, one of which is believed to belong to an Islamist group.
AFP also reports, "An Islamist in the crowd took umbrage at the poem, attacking the actress and sparking a melee in which people hurled fire extinguishers at each other."
However, according to a statement released by the Supreme Council of Culture in Egypt, the council condemns such acts and confirms that assaulting the actress was a result of her attacking an elderly woman among the crowd at the time.
The statement read, "Raghda's name was not among the convention's programme but her attendence was made official as accompanied by the Syrian state television crew."
It is worth mentioning, that according to the council, the Syrian actress, the night before the conference, had requested her attendence asking to be scheduled within the evening's framework.
With the director's approval, Raghda was accompanied by Syria's state televion channel which was granted offical entry to cover the event; along with a group of Egyptian youths, believed to be members of the Facebook campaign Asfeen Ya Rayes (We Are Sorry, President).
According to police reports filed by the actress that night in Qasr El-Nil police station in Zamalek and published on Ahram Arabic, the actress reported the incident claiming "I was interrupted during my reading by a Salafi young man who started cursing and attacking me," the actress said to policeman. She went on, "and when I stood up for myself, five others joined him and then physically attacked me." 
Following the Raghda commotion, the actress made a quick interview with Ahram Arabice saying, "I am fine and will always support the Free Syrian Army." The following day, on her official Facebook page, admin of the page confirmed that the actress is fine and has suffered only minor bruises. Yet, a supporter of Raghda on the page states, "Raghda is targeted by the Islamists of Egypt who tried to assasinate her last night... I am an eye-witness."
 
 