PROGRAMME: Cairo independent culture festival offers 'Alternative Solution'
The first-of-its-kind festival, 'Alternative Solution' in Cairo's Townhouse Gallery presents free of charge performances and film screenings, taking place between 24 March and 17 April
The festival is an independent initiative by two young artists: Mido Sadek and Saber Sayid, who address the issue of shutting down of cultural spaces in Cairo.
The group recycled Townhouse's Factory space from an exhibition hall to a theatre, as an experiment. "With many artistic spaces closing, such as Rawabet Theater, we wanted to try and use spaces such as garages and warehouses, which are empty for art," an organiser of the festival Maha Moneb told Ahram Online.
With a focus on independent arts and younger performers, the festival is bringing to the stage many Egyptian artists across various disciplines.
The volunteer-run festival is not charging any ticket fees at the door to make the festival more inclusive. They are also placing a screen on Nabrawy Street outside of Townhouse, where there is a popular local cafe, and many bystanders, allowing them to see the performances inside the hall.
"Until the festival starts, the space is also open all day for rehearsals and pop-up events by any artists," Moneb said. "We encourage people to pass by and take a look at what we've done with the stage," she added excitedly.
Programme:
Sunday 24 March
7pm        A word from the organisers.
7.15pm   Film screening of
 
Ahad sokan Al Maddina
 
(One of the City's Residents) by Adham El-Sherief.
7.40pm   Electronic Music Project performance
 
Shorba
 
Mohamed Shafik & Nadah El-Shazly
8.15pm   Concert by Mashrou' Koral, Sallam Yousry
Tuesday 26 March
8pm        Film screening
 
Though I Know The River is Dry
 
by Omar Hamilton
8.30pm   Mashrou’ Mareekh's Open Mic
9.10pm   Concert by Darwasha Band
Thursday 28 March
8pm        Poetry night by Amin Haddad directed by Reem Hatem
Saturday 30 March
8pm        Film screening of
 
Dakhel w Khareg El Ghorfa
 
(In & Out The Room) by Dina Hamza
9pm        Electronic Music concert by Maurice Loca
Wednesday 3 April
8pm        Short Movie screenings
Friday 5 April
8pm       
 
Be Basata Keda
 
(simply like this) performance of stories about the revolution by Ana El-Hekaya Group
Sunday 7 April
8pm         Screenings by Mosireen Media Cooperative
8.45pm    Electronic Music concert by Rami Abadeer
9.15pm    Concert by 'Page 2' Band Feat. Aly Talibab's Lyrics & Poetry
Monday 8 April
8pm         Documentary Theatre
 
No Time For Art 
directed by Laila Soliman
Tuesday 9 April
8pm        Contemporary Dance performance
 
Not for Everybody
 
by Mirette Michail
8.45pm   Concert by Hassan Zaki
Thursday 11 April
8pm        Dancing Martial Art Brazilian
 
Capoeira by
 
Mohamed Tiger
8.45pm   HipHop Dancing by 
We Are
 
Group
Saturday 13 April
8pm        Multimedia performance
 
No Exit
 
by Omar El-Motaa'z Bellah
Monday 15 April
8pm        Contemporary Dance performance
 
Disorder
 
by Sherien Hegazy
8pm        Stand Up Comedy by Ali Qandeel
8.45        Mime by Amro Abdel Aziz
9pm        Contemporary Dance performance
 
One
 
by Ahmed El Gendy
Wednesday 17 April
7.30pm   Clown performance by
 
Outa Hamra
8.30        A Word from the Organisers
8.45        Contemporary Dance Centre performance by Karima Mansour
9.45        Concert by Yousra El-Hawary
 