VIDEO: Swaziland win raised Egypt's morale before qualifier: Bradley
10-0 win gave Egypt morale boost ahead of Tuesday's World Cup qualifier against Zimbabwe; Swaziland coach says he wasn't surprised by the thrashing
Egypt's landslide 10-0 win over Swaziland on Friday will have a positive impact on his player's confidence amid their campaign for a spot in the 2014 World Cup, says Egypt American coach Bob Bradley.
The Pharaohs end a four-match losing streak by thrashing their visitors in their last warm-up game just before Tuesday's World Cup qualifier against Zimbabwe.
"The friendly against Swaziland achieved its goals, since it boosted the players' confidence and raised their morale ahead of the anticipated clash with Zimbabwe," Bradley told Ahram Sport after the match.
"The technical staff will focus on avoiding the mistakes that we made against Swaziland ahead of the World Cup qualifier," he added.
Egypt hit top Group G in the qualifiers with six points from two games, three ahead of second-placed Guinea. Zimbabwe and Mozambique have one point each.
Bradley had previously vowed to secure Egypt's first ticket to the most prestigious global competition since 1990.
"We need fans' support in Tuesday's match, especially as our opponents will be in a must-win situation," the former USA coach concluded.
Swaziland came to learn from the Pharaohs
Friday's win is their fourth-biggest victory ever. Egypt crushed Saudi Arabia 13-0 in a regional game in 1961, thumped Laos 15-0 in a friendly game in 1963, thrashed South Korea 10-0 in the 1964 Olympic Games and routed Yemen 14-0 in Pan Arab Games one year later.
Swaziland Belgian Valerie Billen is not surprised by the result because he sees a vast gap between the two teams.
"It is a normal result, since the Egypt team have the upper hand with its great experience," Billen said on TV after the match.
"Who are we to stand against the Pharaohs? We came here to learn from them.
"We are building a new team, so the result was not a surprise for me or my young players," he concluded.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 