Egypt call up 12 foreign-based players for World Cup camp
Hull City trio of Gedo, Fathi and Elmohamady are among 12 foreign-based players called up for Pharaohs training camp before Zimbabwe match, El-Hadary left out
Egypt have called up 12 foreign-based players for a training camp ahead their match against Zimbabwe in the 2014 World Cup qualifiers on 26 March.
Coach Bob Bradley has said the squad to play Zimbabwe will be announced two or three days before the match date.
The training camp will begin on 17 March and Egypt will play a friendly against Swaziland on 22 March.
The winners of seven African Cup of Nations titles are bidding for their first World Cup since 1990.
Egypt tops Group G in the qualifiers with six points from two games, three ahead of second-placed Guinea. Zimbabwe and Mozambique hold one point each.
Egypt lost their fourth successive friendly to Qatar 1-3 after previously losing to Ghana 0-3, Ivory Coast 2-4 and Chile 1-2.
Egyptian football has faced extraordinary circumstances since the Port Said disaster that left 72 Ahly fans dead in February 2012. The Egyptian Football Association (EFA) headquarters were torched on Saturday after the Port Said trial verdict.
The twelve players are as follows:
Defenders: Ahmed Saied Okka (Lierse) and Adam El-Abd: (Brighton)
Midfielders: Ahmed Fathi (Hull City), Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City), Mohamed El-Neny (Basel), Mohamed Abou-Treika (Bani Yas), Hosni Abd-Rabou (Al-Nasr) and Ashour El-Taqy (Lierse)
Strikers: Mohamed Nagy 'Gedo' (Hull City), Ahmed Hassan 'Koka' (Rio Ave FC), Mohamed Salah (Basel) and Ahmed Temsah (Dhofar)
Keeper El-Hadary out
Long-time Egypt, Ahly, Zamalek, Ismaily and FC Sion goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary has been left out of the camp despite recently reversing his international retirement.
“El-Hadary’s exclusion is not because of his retirement statements, but because he is currently out of form and hasn’t played a match this month despite the start of the Sudanese league,” Egypt goalkeepers coach Zaki Abdel-Fattah told Reuters on Sunday adding "Same case for forwards Mahmoud Abdel-Razik “Shikabala” and Mohamed Zidan".
The 39-year-old keeper is out of action after complications with current club Merriekh and has said he will not return to Sudan.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 
 