Hull City coach voices concern over Fathi, Gedo fitness
Steve Bruce says he is willing to be patient with new loan signings, Ahmed Fathi and Gedo, from Egypt's Ahly
Hull City manager Steve Bruce has said he is not in a hurry to receive the best from his new Egyptian loan signings, Mohamed Nagy ‘Gedo’ and Ahmed Fathi.
"I hope they walk straight through the door and hit the ground running but it may take time," Bruce was quoted by
Hull Daily Mail
on Tuesday.
The Ahly players finalised six-month loan deals with the English Championship side just one day before the closure of the winter transfer window.
"The big thing is that their league has not been playing. How physically ready they are will be the big question but certainly for ability they'll have no problems."
The Egyptian Premier League was suspended for a year after 72 Ahly fans were killed in the Port Said stadium disaster in February 2012. The new season started last weekend.
"If they'd have been playing every week back in Egypt then I don't think there would be any kind of problem.
"They play in a hostile environment and handle huge pressures every time they play. There'll always be a question mark over how a foreign player will adapt, but they're used to how physical it can be."
Despite the tension in Egypt, Fathi and Gedo were able to inspire the Cairo-based team to their seventh African Champions League title and to deliver a good performance at the FIFA Club World Cup in Japan.
The Egyptians are expected to arrive in the United Kingdom on Thursday to join their national teammate Ahmed Elmohamady.
"Gedo wants to prove himself here and he could be the crown jewel we're looking for. It's a gamble, but he's certainly got potential."
In-form Gedo, 28, has recently produced a string of fine performances with Ahly and Egypt alike. Versatile wing-back Fathi, 28, is Egypt’s most consistent player and was named in Africa’s best XI in 2012 by the Confederation of African Football (CAF).
"I've always been intrigued by the Egyptian market. People go all over Africa to get players, but Egypt are always one of the strongest traditionally in Africa," Bruce said.
"If they're in good physical shape, they'll be terrific acquisitions.
"Ahly is the Manchester United of Africa. To get two of their players is remarkable."
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 
 