Relive: Ahly 2-1 AC Leopards (African Super Cup)
Egyptian giants Ahly win the African Super Cup after defeating AC Leopards of Congo 2-1 in Alexandria on Saturday
Ahly keeper Sherif Ekramy makes a stunning save to thwart Leopards in the dying seconds!! He blocks a powerful shot from an opponent and Gomaa intercepts to clear the danger.
The referee adds four minutes of stoppage time.
Ahly are a few moments away from a fifth Super Cup triumph, barring any last-gasp goal from the visitors.
Ahly are trying to hold onto their slender advantage, four minutes from time.
Substitute Emad Meteb almost scores the third for Ahly!! His left-foot shot strikes the bar from inside the area.
Ahly make their second substitution. Midfielder Mahmoud Hassan, better known as Trezeguet, replaces forward El-Sayed Hamdi . Coach Hossam El-Badry plays it safe in the last few minutes.
Rudy Bhebey Ndey pulls one back after holding off a tame challenge from Ahly defender Wael Gomaa to swivel and sends a low shot into the bottom corner from inside the area. Leopards revive their hopes of leveling the score.
Ahly face little resistance from their modest opponents, who were lucky to keep the score goalless until the 55th minute.
Barakat runs onto another precise pass from El-Said to go one-on-one and slips the ball underneath Leopards keeper and into the net. Ahly put the tie to bed.
Leopards look dangerous on the break.
Sherif Ekramy prevents Leopard from equalising! Bienvenu Kombo breaks the offside trap to latch onto a through pass and go clear but his subsequent shot is superbly saved by the keeper.
Ahly eased off a bit after taking the lead. It remains to be seen whether Leopards will take advantage of that.
Ahly make their first substitution, Emad Meteb replaces the ineffective Ahmed Abdel-Zaher.
Ahly finally make their dominance count after long periods of sustained pressure. They are still pushing forward to put the result beyond doubt.
Defensive midfielder Rami Rabeia finally puts Ahly in front, firing a powerful low shot that goes into the bottom corner of the net. Ahly deservedly grab the lead.
The Red Devils squander another clear-cut chance!! Right-back Sherif Abdel-Fadil superbly skips past his challenger to break clear on the right hand side of the area but his angled shot is saved by the impressive guardian.
Abdallah El-Said tries his luck with a low shot but his effort is blocked by the keeper.
Ahly waste an opportunity in the early stages of the second half. Barakat darts down the right and sends in a cross that goes begging.
Ahly pile on late pressure in the first half as the referee adds two minutes of stoppage time.
Ahly's Barakat jinks into the area, outpaces his challengers and fires a low angled shot that misses the target.
AC Leopards almost score against the run of play!! Rudy Bhebey Ndey pounces on a poor back header from Ahly defender Wael Gomaa to break clear, round Ekramy and slip the ball towards the net. He is very unlucky, the ball strikes the post!! What a chance.
36
A long-range free-kick from full-back Ahmed Shedid is tipped over by the keeper.
34
It seems it's only a matter of time before Ahly open the scoring.
30
Ahly's attacking duo El-Sayed Hamdi and Ahmed Abdel-Zaher are failing to make the most of El-Said's threaded passes.
29
Ahly are launching wave after wave of fast-paced attacks, but they are yet to break the deadlock.
27
Another poor header from Abdel-Zaher goes straight into the keeper's hands. 
25
El-Sayed Hamdi shoots across the six-yard box after another precise defence-splitting pass from the lively El-Said.
24
At the other end, a tame header by Ahly's Abdel-Zaher is handed by the keeper.
21
In a rare foray forward, an attempted bicycle kick from a Leopard forward is easily collected by Ahly keeper Sherif Ekramy.
20
The hosts have been lacking the cutting edge lately. They will have to find a killer instinct to down Leopards tonight.
16
Ahly's attacking midfielder Mohamed Barakat is booked for a challenge on an opponent.
15
Ahly, as expected, totally dominated the first quarter of an hour. They seem close to taking the lead.
10
Ahly waste another chance few moments later!! El-Said's through ball releases striker Ahmed Abdel-Zaher, whose sliding effort misses the target.
10
The former Ismaily man goes close to opening the scoring!! His curling shot from the edge of the area narrowly misses the target.
9
Ahly's build-up play is built around El-Said, Ahly's most creative player.
7
Leopards begin to take some possession, but their passes in the final third are inaccurate.
4
The first attempt for Ahly: Attacking midfielder Abdallah El-Said receives a lay-off from forward El-Sayed Hamdi to send a low shot that goes just wide of the post.
3
Ahly begin with an attacking verve. They are firm favourites to secure a fifth Super Cup triumph. 
The match is underway
18:25
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry prefers to field new signing Ahmed Abdel-Zaher upfront instead of the misfiring Emad Meteb, whose patchy form prompted the coach to bench him.
18:20
Few thousand fans are present at the Egyptian Army Stadium amid tight security.
18:15
Ahly’s starting line-up: Sherif Ekramy, Sherif Abdel-Fadil, Mohamed Naguib, Wael Gomaa, Ahmed Shedid, Hossam Ashour, Rami Rabeia, Abdallah El-Said, Mohamed Barakat, El-Sayed Hamdi, Ahmed Abdel-Zaher
.
18:00
The Cairo giants' officials said they were disappointed at poor ticket sales for the African Super Cup. Local reports said only 3,000 tickets were sold.
17:45
Ahly, who won the Super Cup a record four times, lost in the competition only once when they slumped to a 1-0 defeat by Cairo rivals Zamalek in 1994 in Johannesburg.
17:30
Ahly, a formidable force during their triumphant African Champions League campaign, are clearly affected by the absence of some key players, including influential trio Gedo, Ahmed Fathi and Mohamed Abou-Treika who left the club on short-term loan deals.
17:00
Ahly will be looking for their first African Super Cup since 2009, while AC Leopards are seeking to win their second continental title.
The game is set to start at 18:30 Cairo local time (GMT +2)
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 