Egyptian consumer confidence fell in Q4 2012: Nielsen
Consumers reported a drop in optimism about employment prospects and personal finances in a survey conducted in 2012
Consumer confidence in Egypt dropped during the last quarter of 2012, according to the latest Nielsen Global Survey of Consumer Confidence and Spending Intentions.
The survey, established in 2005, covers 58 countries, polling more than 29,000 consumers on their financial outlook and spending intentions.
In the last months of 2012, Egypt's consumer confidence index, which is measured relative to 100, fell from a positive 103 to a negative 94 points. Sixty four per cent of Egyptians surveyed predicted that their purchases would be restrained over the next year, a seven per cent increase from the third quarter.
Optimism regarding employment prospects also dropped by nine points that quarter to reach 50 per cent. Egyptians were also more pessimistic about their personal finances compared to the previous quarter, as revealed by a seven point drop in optimism to 57 per cent.
"The last two years were seesaw years when emotions and consumer sentiments in Egypt went up and down in reaction to the fast-changing political and economic landscape," said Ram Mohan Rao, managing director, Nielsen Egypt. "The latest confidence drop in Q4 is an indication of how consumers are interpreting the recent tough economic steps the government is contemplating implementing for the long-term good of the economy."
The survey was conducted between 10 and 27 November, 2012, a time of intense political turmoil in Egypt sparked by President Morsi's controversial constitutional declaration. The crisis was compounded by a sudden tax hike on a wide range of consumer goods and services, which was quickly suspended in the face of public uproar. The confusion, and subsequent suspension in Egypt's talks with the IMF over a $4.8 billion rescue package, left the economic future of Egypt looking murkier than ever. 
"If people do not see any quick improvement in the economy, then it is possible that in the short term, consumer confidence will continue to slide," concluded Rao.
 