Rising star Emerati DJ Bliss: Pairs with Wyclef on new CD
Of Persian parents, Emerati-born Marwan Parham Al-Awadhi speaks to Ahram Online on his music and rise to international stardom as 'DJ Bliss'
With a lead of over ten years in the UAE's music scene and a number of awards, including Time Out Nightlife Awards for 2011 and 2012 for Best Local DJ and Best Urban Night, Marwan Parham Al-Awadhi, known as DJ Bliss, adds more successes to his portfolio, collaborating with Grammy award-winner Wyclef Jean in his soon-to-be-released album  
April Showers
.
"Working with Wyclef from the Fugees, one of the popular bands of the 1990s, has probably been one of the best experiences of my life," DJ Bliss expresses, gratefully.
When Wyclef Jean visited UAE in November during the
Formula 1
event, he, DJ Bliss and his music partner Prince Q immediately found a musical connection. The Arab duo co-produced five songs of Jean's upcoming
April Showers
, in which they added "some Arabic sounds, so, keep a close watch for what we will be releasing next," DJ Bliss teases.
"The three of us recorded three songs in Wyclef's hotel room in Abu Dhabi. The other two were recorded at Jean's studio in New York afterwards. Out of the five, the single
Mid-Life Crisis
is out now."
"Inspiring, funny and dramatic," says DJ Bliss, were how he describes his memory of "The Clef," as he calls him. While working with the music icon, DJ Bliss recalls: "I kept pushing him in our recording sessions to an extent that he revealed later in New York that it was a difficult."
In New York, DJ Bliss went in Jean's studio one day to find him pushing one of the artists he's recording with. He looked at DJ Bliss and said "See Bliss, you are not the only one giving artists a hard time… We do it here in New York, too," DJ Bliss quotes Wyclef Jean with a laugh.
Born Marwan Younes Parham Al-Awadhi to Persian parents originally from Al-Awadhi tribe in Iran, DJ Bliss has become one of the most sought-after DJs and hosts in the Gulf region. "Despite my Persian name and features, I am Emirati-born, raised, and studied here all my life," DJ Bliss affirms to Ahram Online.
Since early childhood, Al-Awadhi has been fond of music, although he did not take it academically. "My first experience with music was learning the guitar at home, taught by my elder brother," he reveals.
Moving on, young Al-Awadhi then considered sounds of the drum and bass as his passion for many years, until he landed in his high school radio station. "In high school, I ran the school's radio station and became the school's official DJ, hosting all parties."
From there on, Al-Awadhi became DJ Bliss hosting major events across the UAE. He became one of the country's radio icons with his
411 Saturdays
, for which he won many awards, including the Time Out awards.
Devoting his life to music, DJ Bliss considers his musical style "a mix of everything."
"I started with alternative and rock, then moved to some R'n'B and Hip Hop but now I have become old school, playing funk, electro and experimental sounds."
DJ Bliss's fusions also include some of his oriental and Middle Eastern tunes because, to him, "music has no boundaries."
"The Arab world, today, is so influenced by Western House and Hip Hop genres, where I see our artists adding their special signatures and twists," DJ Bliss believes. However, "I am not sure that the table will turn with our music completely influencing the West." Although he has doubts, he remains hopeful because "with music, you never know - and that is the beauty of it." 
Aside from the borderless mixes, according to DJ Bliss, "reading the crowd is equally important, not to mention keeping up with the continuous technological innovations."
DJ Bliss is also famous for his television appearances, where he interviewed several international icons, including Quincy Jones, Sean Paul, Usher, Kanye West, Flo Rida and Black Eyed Peas to name a few. He also hosted some of their concerts in Dubai. "I was blessed to meet Quincy Jones last year. The man is a legend."
Eagerly awaiting Wyclef Jean's album release, DJ Bliss is currently focusing on producing two solo singles to follow up his already-released single entitled
Let It Go
, featuring Canadian rapper Kardinal Offishall.
Furthermore, DJ Bliss is also working on an album entitled
QB7 Made in Dubai
, featuring Prince Q. "The album will feature a number of local and international artists," DJ Bliss tells Ahram Online.
Following Jean's
April Showers
release, DJ Bliss is expected to accompany the international star throughout his world tour, so stay tuned.
 