Cold season: your guide to beat the flu
With cold season still on and temperatures fluctuating, common colds seem inevitable. Experts suggest what foods to eat to keep the cold/flu at bay, and what to do if you have already been hit
If you feel like the common cold cycle never ends and everyone you know has fallen victim to the virus this season, you are not just imagining it. The winter viruses hit us hard this year and according to the World Health Organisation stats, more than two hundred strains of cold viruses are at large, with the number ever-increasing as each strain tends to evolve.
Before it hits you:
"Protection is your first guard when it comes to cold and flu, and the key word here is boosting your first-line of defence: your immunity," says Dr Abdel Hadi Mesbah, professor of immunology and fellow of the American Academy of Immunology. Aside from vaccines and regular guidelines of keeping a distance from anyone infected, avoiding crowded places, regularly hand-washing, the most important thing is to give your immunity a boost through what you eat.
The most important nutrition factors are as follows:
Citrus fruits contain vitamin C, which is a key ingredient in fighting a cold. There is no danger in taking high doses, since the body automatically flushes out the excess, but it’s better to stick to 60mg a day.
Nuts are a very good indulgence during winter, since they are rich in vitamin E, an antioxidant. Treat yourself regularly to some walnuts or hazelnuts, and you can find vitamin E in potatoes and pumpkins, too.
Oily fish, like salmon or tuna, will provide omega-3, which helps against infections.
Unfortunately the whole grains concept is missing from our daily lives, but the selenium in these grains, brown rice and whole grain wheat enhances the natural "killer" cells in your system.
Not a very popular choice, but it is thought that allicin in garlic boosts immunity, provided that you eat it raw with your food.
Vegetables rich in Zinc, like sweet corn and pumpkin, fight colds and reduce its intensity. You can also find it in dairy products, beef and turkey.
Plan B: If it's too late and you've been tagged with the virus
If the symptoms persist for a long time or if you find yourself suffering from ear aches or chest pains, you might need an antibiotic. Consult with a physician; otherwise the symptoms will spell out the appropriate remedy," says Dr Iman Eltahllawy, assistant professor of public and environmental health at The National Research Institute. She gives the guidelines of dealing with the symptoms as follows:
For a runny nose, use nasal sprays. Unless you have high blood pressure, opt for decongestants.
If headaches are the prevailing symptom, use medicines containing paracetamol.
If your nose is stuffed, try smelling ointments that contain menthol and eucalyptus oil.
Codeine found in some medications is a good way to relieve a dry cough.
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 