Too much salt may trigger autoimmune diseases: Studies
A new study proves that curbing your salt cravings may protect you from autoimmune disease
Increased salt consumption may be a key culprit behind rising rates of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, researchers reported on Wednesday in a trio of papers looking at the role of a specific class of cells linked with inflammation.
Reporting in the journal Nature, the researchers said high-salt diets increased levels of a type of immune cell linked with autoimmune disease. And mice genetically engineered to develop multiple sclerosis (MS) got much worse when they ate what amounted to a high-salt Western diet compared with mice who had more moderate salt intake.
The findings suggest that salt may play a previously unknown role in triggering autoimmune diseases such as MS or type 1 diabetes in individuals who are already genetically predisposed.
"It's not bad genes. It's not bad environment. It's a bad interaction between genes and the environment," said Dr. David Hafler, a professor of immunobiology at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, and senior author of one of the three papers.
High salt intake is already a known culprit in increasing the risk of heart disease and hypertension. The new study now implicates high-salt diets in increasing rates of autoimmune disease. "It can't be just salt. We know vitamin D probably plays a small component. We know smoking is a risk factor. This now suggests that salt is also a risk factor," Hafler said.
"How much? We don't know," he added.
 
Hafler became interested in studying the link between salt and autoimmunity through studies of the gut microbiome - a census of gut microbes and cell function of 100 healthy individuals.
The team noticed that when people in the study visited fast food restaurants more than once a week, they saw a marked increase in levels of destructive inflammatory cells, which the immune system produces to respond to injury or foreign invaders, but which attack healthy tissues in autoimmune diseases.
He shared these findings with colleagues at Harvard Medical School and the Broad Institute of Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and others who were working out what factors induce the activity of a type of autoimmune cell known as a T helper 17 or a Th17 cell.
Th17 cells can promote inflammation that is important for defending against pathogens, but they have also been linked to diseases like multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Treatment options for some of these diseases, such as psoriasis, include manipulating T cell function.
 
"If I had MS, I would think very much about not eating processed foods and really cutting down my salt intake," he said.
 
 
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 
 