Worldwide solidarity with Egyptian women against 'Sexual terrorism'
Activists and feminists call for demonstrations outside Egyptian embassies in various world capitals on Tuesday to denounce recent sexual attacks against women protesters in Tahrir Square
Protesters and several NGOs from around the globe announced they will rally in front of Egyptian embassies on Tuesday in solidarity with Egyptian women who have been protesting against “sexual terrorism.”
The protests will be held in several world capitals including Rabat, Morocco; Tunis, Tunisia; Amman, Jordan; Copenhagen, Denmark; Brussels, Belgium; Washington D.C, USA; London, England; Paris, France; and Oslo, Norway.
There will also be rallies in other major cities like Melbourne in Australia and Ramallah in Palestine.
The Arab Women Uprising movement is coordinating the protests along with several NGOs and feminist groups worldwide.
In a statement issued on Monday, the movement held the ruling party in Egypt, the Mulsim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, responsible for not taking enough measures against the “gangs of thugs” who have been attacking, stripping and raping peaceful protesters - women or men - in recent days.
The Statement also accused the Egyptian police of not providing enough protection against sexual harassment to Egyptian women, demanding the passage of a proper law against sexual violence.
The movement also rejected the politics of blaming the victim which is widespread in Egyptian society and media.
The statement called on all revolutionary groups, political parties and NGOs to expose "attempts to defame Tahrir square and to terrorise protesters, and women in particular, in Egypt."
Meanwhile, several Egyptian feminist groups such as
OpAnti-Sexual harassment
announced they would march from Talaat Harb square to Tahrir Square at 6PM on Tuesday as part of the international day of action.
On 25 January, 2013 several female protesters were subjected to sexual assaults and rape by unknown assailants on the margins of anti-government protests in Tahrir Square.
 