Brotherhood insider book wins Cairo book fair award
The Secret of the Temple by ex-Muslim Brotherhood member Tharwat El-Kherebawy won best political book at Cairo's 2012 book fair
This year's Cairo International Book Fair prizes were announced on Tuesday at the closing ceremony of the fair’s cultural programme. The General Egyptian Book Organization (GEBO), the official sponsor of the awards, won four out of the ten awards.
The prizes were awarded to works published in 2012 in ten different fields: political books, novels, short stories, poetry, slang poetry, arts, science, human sciences, heritage, and children's books.
Each prize is worth LE10,000 ($1,490). 
The judging panel included writer and novelist Gamal El-Ghitani, novelist Youssef El-Qaeed, critic Mohammed Badawy and historian Ahmed Zakaria El-Shalq.
The Secret of the Temple
 by ex-Muslim Brotherhood leader Tharwat El-Kherebawy won best political book prize for 2012. The book was published by Nahdet Masr.
Best novel went to El-Taher El-Sharkawy’s novel 
Allazi Yoraby fi Baytouh Hagar (The One Who Raises a Stone in His House),
 published by Kotob Khan.
Best children's book went to 
Lamsat El-Omm (The Mother’s Touch),
 by Naglaa Allam, published by Al-Dar Al-Arabiya lel Kitab.
 The best short story collection went to Mohamed Ibrahim Taha for his collection 
Imraa Asfal Al-Shorfa (A Woman Under the Balcony),
 published by the General Egyptian Book Organization.
The best slang poetry collection award went to 
Bishweesh (Slowly)
 by Ahmed Amin Haddad, published by Al-Ain Publishing House.
The best poetry collection went to 
Tofaha La Tafham Shai (An Apple That Doesn’t Understand)
 by Guirgis Choukri, published by the General Egyptian Book Organization.
Best book in human sciences went to Emad Abdel-Latif for his book 
Balaghat Al-Horeyya (Rhetorics of Freedom)
, released by Tanweer Publishing House.
The winner of best science book went to Mamdouh Hamed and Amany Qonsowa for their book 
Al-Asliha Al-Baiologia (Biological Weapons),
 published by the General Egyptian Book Organization.
Best heritage book award went to 
Unpublished Articles of Ahmed Shafik Ghorbal
 by Hossam Abdel-Zaher, published by the Egyptian National Archives.
The winner of best arts book went to
Marc Chagall
by the late writer Tharwat Okasha, published by the General Egyptian Book Organization.
In addition, the best publisher award went to Iqraa Publishing House.
 