Man shot in head in Egypt's Port Said; local security directorate set ablaze
One shot in head among several injured in ongoing clashes in Port Said where security directorate is torched by protesters; military spokesman denies reports of gunfights between police, army
A man was shot in the head on Monday in Port Said during ongoing clashes between police and protesters in the restive canal city.
The man was allegedly shot during a protest that followed a funeral march held for a civilian killed on Sunday night amid clashes between police and protesters.
Parts of the city's security directorate and governorate headquarters were also set ablaze after protesters hurled Molotov cocktails at both buildings.
Two policemen were also declared dead on Sunday.
Demonstrations turned violent with clashes breaking out between protesters and security forces with the latter using teargas in an attempt to disperse demonstrators.
According to Ayman Gaber, head of emergencies at Port Said's health directorate, the man who was shot in the head is in a critical condition. He has since been transferred to a hospital in Ismailia.
Gaber told Ahram Online that several others had been injured, including police and army personnel.
A security source told Al-Ahram's Arabic-language news website that unidentified armed individuals were shooting randomly at both police and army soldiers deployed in the area.
Clashes broke out Sunday when police fired teargas at demonstrators opposed to an interior ministry decision to transfer 39 detainees from Port Said to the Wadi Natroun Prison in the Beheira governorate located on the other side of the Nile Delta.
The detainees in question were convicted of involvement in last year's deadly Port Said stadium disaster in which scores of football fans were killed.
In an unusual twist, several media outlets reported that police and army soldiers had exchanged fire on Sunday night.
Egyptian Armed Forces spokesman Ahmed Ali denied the reports via Facebook on Sunday night.
Port Said has witnessed riots and protests since 26 January, when 21 Port Said residents were sentenced to death for their roles in last year's stadium tragedy.
Families of the defendants and members of the Green Eagles – hardcore fans of Port Said football club Al-Masry – have been attempting to launch a 'civil disobedience' campaign in Port Said for over two weeks to protest what they see as the unjust verdict and perceived marginalisation by the central government in Cairo. 
 