Relive Nigeria's win over Burkina Faso in Nations Cup final
The Super Eagles win the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations after defeating Burkina Faso 1-0 in the final on Sunday
Just one minute remaining and Nigeria will be crowned African champions.
The referee adds four minutes of stoppage time.
Burkina Faso make their final substitution. Abdou Traore replaces Djakaridja Kone.
The final substitution for Nigeria. Joseph Yobo comes on instead of Sunday Mba, who scored the only goal.
Nigeria squander two chances in the dying minutes!! Victor Moses and Ahmed Musa both fail to notch home from close range after neatly-worked counter attacks.
Burkina Faso make another substitution
Experienced striker Moumouni Dagano
replaces defender Paul Koulibaly
Nigeria's Sunday Mba tries his luck from distance but he balloons his shot high over.
78
Nigeria may now opt to sit back to defend their slender advantage.
74
An end-to-end game is getting more exciting in the final 15 minutes. Nigeria are trying to launch counter attacks to score a decisive goal while Burkina Faso are desperately looking for an equaliser.
73
Nigeria keeper
Vincent Enyeama produces a superb one-handed save to block a low shot from Wilfried Sanou! What a chance for the Burkinabe.
73
Burkina Faso are piling on pressure. They are awarded successive corner kicks.
71
Nigeria's Juwon Oshaniwa receives a yellow card, few minutes following his introduction.
69
Both sides take their feet off the gas pedal.
66
Nigeria's injured defender
Elderson Echiejile
is replaced with
Juwon Oshaniwa
65
Burkina Faso make a substitution. Wilfried Sanou replaces Florent Rouamba
63
Burkina Faso winger Pitroipa is relentlessly trying to mount pressure but he barely gets help from his teammates.
60
Nigera are still in control. They are close to doubling their advantage over the helpless Burkina Faso.
57
Nigeria's Kenneth Omerou is booked for a challenge on Pitroipa.
55
Victor Moses squanders another opportunity for Nigeria!! He jinks into the area but fails to elude his sole challenger.
54
The first substitution for Nigeria, youngster Ahmed Musa replaces ineffective striker
Ikechukwu Uche
.
51
Nigeria are seemingly looking for a decisive second goal which could kill off the hopes of Burkina Faso.
48
The first chance for Nigeria in the second half! Brown Ideye receives a pinpoint pass from Victor Moses on the right hand side of the penalty area, but his shot from a tight angle goes across the six-yard box.
The second half is underway
The referee blows his half-time whistle, Nigeria 1-0 Burkina Faso
45
Nigeria approach halftime with a fully deserved lead. They had the upper hand in an exciting first half.
43
Burkina Faso push forward in a bid to equalise. Bance holds off his marker on the edge of the area but his shot on the turn goes over the bar.
42
A deserved lead for Nigeria, who finally make their dominance count.
40
Sunday Mba scores a stunning goal!! He flickes the ball over his challenger on the edge of the area before sending a superb left-foot volley into the bottom corner. What a strike!!
40 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR NIGERIA!!
39
Burkina Faso's Bakary Kone rises unmarked at the far post but his header from a free-kick hits the side netting.
38
The first yellow card for Nigeria, Ogenyi Onazi is booked for a challenge on Mady Panandetiguiri
36
Nigeria's forwards repeatedly fail to control easy balls, leaving Burkina Faso's defence with a simple task to clear the ball.
32
Burkina Faso's
Florent Rouamba is booked for a challenge on Nigeria's Victor Moses.
32
Ambrose makes a bursting run but his through pass is not accurate. Nigeria are being hindered by repeated mis-placed passes in the final third.
30
Burkina Faso notably improved in the second quarter, but they are yet to carve out goal-scoring opportunities.
28
Bance tries his luck again, this time firing a low free kick wide of the post.
25
Burkina Faso striker Aristide Bance shoots wide from distance.
23
Burkina Faso are defending in numbers. For how long can they keep the dominant Nigerians at bay?
20
The lively Victor Moses is causing Burkina's backline all sorts of problems.
19
Brown Ideye controls a wayward pass from Burkina Faso's Paul Koulibaly on the edge of the area but he fails to take advantage of the mistake.
16
The first foray forward by Burkina Faso. Pitropia sends a threaded pass but his strike partner Aristide Bance fails to get on the end of it.
15
Nigeria are superior in the first quarter of an hour, wasting a clear-cut chance in the process. It seems they are close to breaking the deadlock.
14
The deafening  vuvuzela prevails in the stadium.
10
Brown Ideye wastes Nigeria's best chance!! Burkina Faso keeper Daouda Diakite fails to grasp a tame cross but Ideye shoots high over with the goal gaping!
9
Nigerian forward Victor Moses skilfully eludes his challenger on the right and runs to the byline but his subsequent cross is blocked by a defender.
7
Nigeria's Efa Ambrose rises to powerfully head a free-kick just over the bar. The first real chance for the Nigerians
4
Burkina Faso's Aristide Bance blasts a long-range shot high over the bar.
4
Burkina Faso are gradually taking possession. They hope Pitroipa would be able to unlock Nigeria's backline.
2
Efe Ambrose makes a darting run down the right flank and sends in a cross that is easily handled by Burkina Faso keeper. An early foray by Nigeria.
The match is underway
20:22
Both sides are lining up for the national anthems, in the presence of FIFA president Sepp Blatter.
20:19
here we go, the players are preparing to enter the pitch.
20:00
It seems the match will go ahead at 20:30 rather than 20:00.
19:40
The players are warming up just a few minutes before the game.
19:28
On the other camp, Burkina Faso fielded talisman Jonathan Pitroipa who has been cleared by the CAF for the final after rescinding his controversial dismissal in the semi-final.
19:26
The good news for the Nigerians is that Victor Moses is fit and will start the game after recovering from a minor injury
19:24
Surprisingly in-form striker and the team's top scorer Emmanuel Emenike is absent. He picked a knock against Mali and failed to recover. Ikechukwu Uche replaced him.
19:23
Here we have the teams' lineups
19:16
Dancers perform in the closing ceremony minutes before the start of the game.
19:13
The stadium is packed for this final contest.
19:10
Keshi is also looking to emulate Egypt's legend Mahmoud  El-Gohary who won the title as a player and coach.
19:06
Burkina Faso defied the odds to reach the final, eliminating the likes of Togo and Ghana in the process.
19:04
Nigeria are eyeing their first title since 1994 and their third overall while Burkina Faso are making their first ever appearance in the tournament’s final.
19:00
History will be made tonight in the African Cup of Nations.
19:00
Welcome to Ahram Online’s live coverage of the 2013 African Nations Cup final between Nigeria and Burkina Faso.
Teams
Burkina Faso:
1-Daouda Diakite; 5-Mohamed Koffi, 4-Bakary Kone, 8-Paul Koulibaly, 12-Mady Panandetiguiri; 6-Djakaridja Kone, 18-Charles Kabore, 7-Florent Rouamba, 22-Prejuce Nakoulma, 11-Jonathan Pitroipa; 15-Aristide Bance
Nigeria:
1-Vincent Enyeama; 3-Elderson Echiejile, 22-Kenneth Omeruo, 14-Godfrey Oboabona, 5-Efe Ambrose; 17-Ogenyi Onanzi, 10-John Obi Mikel, 19-Sunday Mba, 11-Victor Moses; 8-Brown Ideye, 15-Ikechukwu Uche
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 