Video: 10 years on, activist Rachel Corrie remembered
Rachel Corrie's parents say US President Obama should refuse to continue US military and diplomatic support until Israel gives truthful answers to their questions about the killing of their daughter in Gaza
Corrie, a 23-year-old woman from Washington State in the US, was crushed by an Israeli army bulldozer on 16 March 2003 while protesting against the demolition of a Palestinian house.
As an activist she had often spoken out about the injustices that she saw in Gaza.
"I feel like I’m witnessing the systematic destruction of a people’s ability to survive. It’s horrifying… Sometimes I sit down to dinner with people and I realise there is a massive military machine surrounding us, trying to kill the people I’m having dinner with," she was quoted as saying by the Palestinian-led movement the International Solidarity Movement (ISM).
Corrie's parents also had a message for American president Barack Obama.
"On March 16, 2003, my daughter Rachel Corrie was crushed to death under a bulldozer driven by an Israel Defense Forces soldier. The bulldozer was manufactured in the United States by Caterpillar, Inc. and paid for by US foreign military financing aid. My tax dollars paid for the machine used to kill my daughter," Craig Corrie, co-founder, Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice told the
 American news website The Hill.
"What then would I ask President Obama to do as he makes his way to Israel and Palestine this month? Assure Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas alike that we will stand with them for the just aspirations of all their citizens, including the equal recognition to their right to be free of threats to their homes, families, farmland, and future.
"Explain that the US will no longer support financially or diplomatically the apartheid system embodied in the occupation of Palestine and in the treatment of Palestinian citizens of Israel. Remind them that security cannot come at the expense of the other, but only with the participation of both.
"Rather than giving licence to a government’s most violent instincts by repeating endlessly that Israel has a right to defend itself – ignoring that Palestinians also have that right – call instead for the courage of each side to live by the ceasefires negotiated but left unsigned or ignored."
"President Obama should refuse to continue US military and diplomatic support until Israel gives truthful answers to our questions, not just for US citizens like Rachel and Furkan Dogan, but for all the civilians killed or maimed using US-funded weapons."
"Use this trip to a deeply troubled and divided place to remind the world that Americans believe all people 'are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.' Then, make this first principle of America’s existence the foundation of his foreign policy for the next four years."
Remembering Rachel Corrie
 