Bahraini protester dies of wounds: Opposition
Bahrain's main Shiite opposition group Al-Wefaq says 20-year-old protester died less than week after being shot by police during clashes on second anniversary of 2011 uprising; authorities remain tight-lipped
A Shiite protester died of wounds after he was shot during clashes with Bahraini police on the second anniversary of the February 14, 2011 uprising, the opposition said on Friday.
Mahmud al-Jaziri, 20, succumbed on Thursday to wounds suffered when he was "hit with a direct shot to the head by regime forces during peaceful protests" marking the uprising, the main Shiite opposition Al-Wefaq group said.
The shooting occurred on Nabi Saleh island, south of Manama, on a day that two other people died during demonstrations commemorating the uprising, which Saudi-backed Bahraini forces crushed in mid-March 2011.
Video footage posted on YouTube showed what was said to be a Bahraini policeman firing from a close range at a protester hurling stones at advancing riot police.
The type of gun used is unclear in the video, also posted on Al-Wefaq's Facebook page and which shows the protester collapsing, as white smoke comes out of the gun's barrel.
The Bahraini authorities have so far not made any comment on Jaziri's reported death.
Police in the kingdom, which is ruled by the Sunni Al-Khalifa dynasty, mostly use shotguns and tear gas to disperse protests by disgruntled members of the Shiite majority.
Jaziri's funeral is expected later on Friday.
Another protester, Hussein al-Jaziri, 16, was killed on February 14 in the village of Daih, while a policeman was killed on the same day at Al-Sahla village, on the outskirts of Manama.
Bahrain has witnessed two years of political upheaval linked to opposition demands for a real constitutional monarchy, with the unrest claiming at least 80 lives, according to international rights groups.
Protests continue despite the resumption on February 10 of a national dialogue between opposition groups and the government.
The talks that also include representatives of Sunni political groups and members of the parliament are being held twice a week, but the government said no statements will be made on the progress of the dialogue.
 