Freedom and Justice Party Demands Independent Investigations into Allegations of Rights Violations
Freedom and Justice Party leader Heshmat submits a formal request to Egypt Shura Council (upper house of parliament) demanding impartial inquiries into all cases of torture and fair punishment for all those involved.
Dr. Gamal Heshmat, member of Egypt’s Shura Council and member of the Freedom and Justice Party (FJP)’s National Committee, submitted a formal request to Dr. Ahmed Fahmi, Shura Council Speaker, urging full investigations into claims of kidnapping and torture, over the past six months, in a manner reminiscent of the notorious, now-dissolved, State Security apparatus.
Dr. Heshmat said: "Many cases have been reported, such as that of Anas Mohamed, aged 23, and Mustafa Kamal Abul-Magd, aged 19 – who were tortured in July and September 2012, despite Egypt’s state of emergency coming to an end.
"Civilians are still being brought to Supreme State Security Courts, in cases like Taba, Zeiton Cell, Abu-Qurqas, Al-Arish, and Bashar Abu-Zaid. The people of Alqorsayah Island were even tried before military courts."
Dr. Heshmat added that, "Interior Ministry excesses persist now even after the emergency law was abolished. Some 86 cases have been reported where people suffered detention, torture and murder in clashes with the security forces".
He called for debates on recent events and escalation of violence by the security services, which he described as most unacceptable.
"We deeply and sincerely appreciate the efforts of the police, because they evidently use self-restraint quite often – otherwise, abuses would have been many times what is now witnessed. That, however, does not at all justify dealing with people with the same logic and the same way as before the January 25 revolution.
"I call on all relevant authorities to begin serious reform of the security sector, with more oversight, to ensure no such violations would ever take place again. I also call for independent and impartial investigations into all allegations of torture, with fair trials and punishment for the perpetrators and fair compensation for the victims and their families. Trying civilians before military courts must stop, too. The State Security Emergency Court must be shuttered, to safeguard the right to fair trials before natural courts, according to the provisions of the new constitution."