Freedom and Justice Party Welcomes Presidential Port Said Support Decision
Announcing a huge support package for the country’s three Suez Canal cities of Port Said, Suez and Ismailia, Egyptian Presidency vows effective support is soon to follow for Sinai, Upper Egypt and Nubia, as well as all provinces across the country.
 Dr. Hussein Abdel-Kader, Freedom and Justice Party (FJP)’s Political Communication Secretary, said: "The decision of President Mohamed Morsi to allocate 400 million Egyptian Pounds (approx. US$60 million) per annum from Suez Canal revenues to improving and developing Canal cities is well spent money. The city of Port Said deserves all support."
In televised remarks, Dr. Abdel-Kader affirmed that the President’s positive decisions do not have any connection with upcoming parliamentary elections campaigning: "These decisions will not serve any FJP purposes. In fact, public interest requires taking into account the suffering of the Egyptian people.
"Egypt’s Presidential institution issues decisions and decrees that aim to benefit Egypt first. The decision to restore Port Said free zone has pleased many people of Port Said happy. No-one should speak for the ‘intentions’ of the Presidency. Meanwhile, the decisions of the presidency should be respected and assessed away from electoral campaigning."
The Shura Council’s legislative committee agreed in principle to reinstate the Port Said free zone, during a meeting of the Committee headed by Justice Mohamed Tosson, after Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi sent the relevant bill to the Shura Council to restart the free zone in Port Said – in addition to the allocation of 400 million Egyptian pounds, a year, from Suez Canal revenue, for the development of the three Canal provinces – and to create new job opportunities for young people.
The Presidency said that this package of measures and decisions for Suez Canal cities is only a prelude to the development of other equally important areas such as the Sinai, Upper Egypt, Marsa Matrouh and Nubia.
In a statement, the Egyptian Presidency confirmed that it hopes all patriotic groups, NGO’s and stakeholders would bear their responsibilities in supporting the comprehensive development system in Canal provinces and throughout Egypt.