Erian: Those Who Fear Democracy Shun Popular Will
Reminding all that the people are the final arbitrator, Freedom and Justice Party leader Erian urges positive start to electoral procedures leading to the most important poll in Egypt’s history.
Dr. Essam El-Erian, Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) Vice-Chairman and head of FJP parliamentary body at the Shura Council, called on all parties and political forces as well as independent politicians to immediately start preparations for the most important elections in Egypt’s history.
In a post on his Facebook page, Dr. Erian said: "Those who want to share executive power with the president, must win a parliamentary majority either alone or in alliance with others.
"Those who want early presidential elections, must get a two-thirds majority in parliament, to try and impeach the president, if they believe he committed a felony or treason based on the text of the Constitution."
Dr. Erian went on to say: "Failed politicians, unable to compete and fearful of democracy, those who for decades raised their voices – speaking in the name of the people but never respected free-will for one day and never sought to hear the people’s real voice in free elections or referenda, those who usurped power for many years, should abstain.
"I agree with a lot of the criticism leveled at the Constitutional Court ruling to reject some of the texts of the amended election law. But the majority of critics forget that constitutional courts in most countries of the world are politicized, because they deal with the most important political document (the Constitution) of their respective countries. Our Constitutional Court is no exception."
The FJP Vice-Chairman said that the Shura Council’s Committee on Constitutional and Legislative Affairs acted upon the Constitutional Court ruling, and with government assistance redistributed seats on the country’s constituencies, leading to an increase of MPs from 498 to 546. The Court ruling was thus fully implemented, he concluded.
 