Art Alert: Renowned Chinese pianist to give recital at Manasterly Palace
On 3 March, Yuan Sheng from China will give piano recital at Cairo's historic Manasterly Palace, home to concerts organised by the International Music Centre
Yuan Sheng, the renowned Chinese pianist, will perform works by Bach, Mozart, Chopin and Debussy on Sunday, 3 March, at Manasterly Palace in Cairo.
Born to a family of musicians in Beijing, Yuan Sheng began his music studies at age five. His further studies took him to the Central Conservatory and the Manhattan School of Music in New York City, where he completed his Bachelor and Master of Music degrees. According to the programme notes, Sheng's interest in the music of Bach inspired him to study intensively with Rosalyn Tureck.
"Sheng’s performances and research on the music of Bach have attracted international attention in recent years." One of the critics commented on Sheng's performance of the A major and A minor Preludes and Fugues from Bach’s
Well-Tempered Clavier
- Book 1, to be "models of clarity, balance and proportion."
Sheng is also known for giving many recitals at numerous prestigious international concert halls, including the Carnegie Hall in New York, the Ford Performing Arts Centre in Toronto, Cadogan Hall in London, the Seoul National Centre for the Performing Arts in South Korea, among many others.
Sheng's recital in Cairo will include J S Bach's Partita No 1 in B-Flat Major, BWV 825; Partita No 3 in a minor, BWV 827 followed by W A Mozart's Sonata in E-Flat Major, K 282 a few compositions by F Chopin: Nocturne in D-Flat Major, Op 27, No 2; Impromptu No 1 in A-Flat Major, Op 29; Barcarolle, Op 60 as well as C Debussy's
L'Isle Joyeuse.
Manasterly Palace is home to concerts organised by the International Music Centre (IMC). The IMC, with help from the Culture Development Fund, has been attracting audiences to hear remarkable musicians hand-picked by Ramzi Yassa, a renowned Egyptian and international pianist and artistic director at the centre.
 
Programme:
Sunday, 3 March at 8pm
Manasterly Palace, Rhoda Island, next to the Nilometre, Cairo
For tickets contact Cultural Development Fund, tel (02) 27357001 / 27354234 or Manasterly Palace, tel (02) 23631537
 