Top three fashion museums
With top designers, such as Valentino and Gucci opening up museums and exhibitions becoming more popular, Ahram Online lists the top three
Top designers Valentino, Gucci and more feed their fans with exhibitions and museums on their fashion throughout history. There are numerous fashion museums, actually, out there, particularly in Europe centring around Florence, Paris, London and so on with quite a few in the United States. Even shoes have dedicated museums in Italy and Canada and outfits from the early 19th century can be seen in Kent University in Ohio or gothic and out-of-this-world fashion at the Fashion Institute in New York. Each museum has different exhibitions that cannot be overlooked for their importance, however, if Ahram Online had to pick, here are the top three.
1.    
Museo Salvatore Ferragamo
Florence, Italy
Strategically located below the company’s flagship boutique in Florence’s very posh Via dei Tornbuoni to showcase N Museo Salvatore’s incredible eye for great footwear. He started off in the 1920s and opened a shop in Hollywood and had many starlet clients. His most famous star? Marilyn Monroe. He, unlike other fashion designers, knows how to combine comfort with beauty and sex appeal. No wonder Marilyn chose to wear Ferragamo so often.
 
2.    
Gucci Museum
Florence, Italy
The famous brand has earned every right to open its own museum - and that it did. Housed in what is externally a medieval classic, the Palazzo del Mercanzia, the interior is completely modern. Furthermore, it houses fabulous, luxurious gowns, classic luggage and a Gucci-designed Cadillac Seville of all things! The museum not only houses Gucci’s products, but art, as well, such as, Bill Viola among others who open up galleries there.
 
3.    
Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology
Manhattan, New York
Last but certainly not least. This Museum is inside the Fashion Institute of Technology were students showcasing their lines among various designers and big collectors. The museum mainly contains 50,000 pieces. Inside they have anything from the famed Versace printed suit Marilyn Monroe wore to exhibitions based on genre be it Gothic or Eco friendly fashion. Thanks to no entrance fee this museum attracts over 10,000 tourists a year.
 
For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:@AhramLifestyle or our
Facebook
page)
 