Moroccan football to witness major overhaul after World Cup flop
Coach blames player after the World Cup hopes fade, sports minister promises major changes
The Atlas Lions have come under fierce criticism after Sunday's defeat against Tanzania 3-1 dealt a major blow for the team's World Cup 2014 chances.
After three rounds, Morocco dropped to the third place of Group C with only two points, five behind leaders Ivory Coast and four behind Tanzania.
Coach Rachid Taoussi blamed the lack of experience of some of his players for the team's stumble.
"My mission is to make sure my offensive tactics are working and it is up to the player to score the goals. They have to concentrate to reach the target. I have to say that we suffered from the lack of experience of some players who don't know African football, "Taoussi was quoted as saying by Moroccan website Mountakhab.
A brace from Mbwana Samata and a strike from Thomas Ulimwengu sealed the historic victory for Tanzania while Granada's forward Youssef El-Arabi notched up a consolation for Morocco in stoppage time.
Taoussi was attacked by the media for failing to utilise what was seen as a promising generation for the Atlas Lions with the likes of Younes Belhanda (Moontpellier, France); Mounir El Hamdaoui (Fiorentina, Italy); Youssef El Arabi (Granada, Spain); Oussama Assaidi (Liverpool, England); and Mehdi Benatia (Udinese, Italy).
"Football is not just about technical qualities but you need a strong mental strength because in such games it's the mental that plays the most important role," he concluded.
Important changes
Following the stunning defeat, the minister of youth and sports, Mohamed Ouzzine, said a new era will begin for Moroccan football very soon with the new general assembly of the Moroccan football Federation that will be held next month.
Ouzzine revealed on his facebook page that a lot of changes and work needs to be done in the fields of formation, management and governance of Moroccan football to help the country overcome its struggles.
He said he understands the fans' disappointment following the recent upsets adding that in order to achieve their goals and restructure football in the country the sport will be going through a long and difficult road.
Morocco have suffered two major blows in both of Africa Cup of Nations 2012 and 2013 after been eliminated from the first round.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at 
@AO Sports
 and on Facebook at 
AhramOnlineSports
)
 