Tuomi Trio play to crowd in Darb 1718
German singer Kristiina Tuomi and her band performed at Darb 1718 on Friday 22 March playing a mix of jazz and pop
Despite the sand storm that hit Cairo on Friday 22 March, many Jazz fans from around Cairo head to Darb 1718 to celebrate this year's Jazz fest.  Mainly Egyptian youth gathered around the stage set in the middle of Darb 1718's courtyard, as Kristiina Tuomi and her band geared up to begin their concert.
Surrounding the stage, bit by bit, foreign delegation began to show up. Tuomi's concert could have been the only place, where this number of foreigners currently in the country could be seen; mostly Germans!
Tuomi, along with her band members, did not refrain on commenting on the  surrounding. "One cannot ignore the number of flies around the stage," she addressed audience in the middle of her song, and altered some of her song lyrics to fit in the flies and bugs surrounding her microphone, as such providing an unusual improvisation.
"Shall I sing for the night or flies?" she sarcastically commented. Despite the "irritating" flies, the artist expressed her gratitude to be in Egypt. "I love your country's weather… I just arrived from Berlin and oh my, it is freezing there."
Tuomi mixed in some very slow songs to more up beat tunes, an amalgam which most audience admired and enjoyed. Accompanying her were Carsten Daerr on piano and Carlos Bica on contrabass. The three make the Tuomi Trio or just Tuomi.
Tuomi Trio, as described by many who have seen them perform at Darb 1718 or at Al-Azhar Park the previous night on Thursday 21 March, describe their music as soothing.
Originally from Finland, Tuomi grew up in Berlin in Germany and has been in love with music since early childhood. According to Tuomi, a German online platform providing news and features about Jazz scene, JazzZeitung, the Trio has been described as "a superb addition to Jazz music" and described Kristiina Tuomi's voice as "remarkable".
Tuomi Trio is "a perfect team in the land of jazz, art and avant-garde pop song," JazzZeiting in Berlin reads.
Brought up in Germany and aside from her love of music, Kristiina Tuomi took English Literature as a major. She then teamed up with Daerr and Bica back in 2003 and the three became the Tuomi Trio touring Europe and Asia and receiving many awards including The German Film Awards for their Leroy soundtrack composition for 2007.
Tuomi is known for her songwriting and acoustic chamber compositions, whereas composition of the Tuomi Trio lies totally in the hands of Bica. Both, as many among the concert reckon, are complimented by the tunes of Daerr's piano.
The trio blended jazz with other genres capturing the audience's attention throughout the whole event. A few of the listeners underlined their interest in jazz, pointing to a number of interesting elements in this year's festival.
Tuomi has definitely brought many interesting values to the festival. It is a pity that this critically acclaimed musician did not receive sufficient attention from media and the festival's organisers themselves during their short stay in Egypt.
Tuomi Trio was among this year's Cairo Jazz Festival that included Jazz musicians from USA, Netherlands, Spain, Australia, Syria, Morocco, and Portugal, with a special focus on some of the Jazz world legends including Gilberto Gil and Ziyad Rahbani.
 