Relive: Arsenal 1-3 Bayern Munich (European Champions League)
Bayern Munich defeat Arsenal 3-1 at the Emirates Stadium in the first leg of the European Champions League round of 16
90
The referee adds three minutes of stoppage time.
89
Arsenal are pushing forward in the dying minutes. A second goal will definitely help their cause. If they lose 3-1, they will need to beat Bayern away from home by a margin of at least three goals.
85
Just five minutes remaining. Should Bayern preserve their two-goal advantage, they would be on the verge of a last-eight berth.
82
Substitute Mario Gomez could have scored a fourth but he fired high over on the rebound after a shot was parried by Szczesny
.
80
At the other hand, Neuer palms away a shot from Podolski from inside the area.
76
Croatian striker Mandzukic starts a fine move and ends it successfully to add the third. He loops a low cross from Philipp Lahm into an empty net after the keeper was caught out, leaving Arsenal with an uphill climb.
76 GOAAAAAAAAAL FOR BAYERN MUNICH!!!
75
Arsenal are desperately looking for an equaliser that would keep alive their hopes of advancing to the quarter-final. Giruoud's introduction looks to have pepped up their attack.
73
Bayern make their second substitution, Luiz Gustavo replaces Toni Kroos.
72
Giroud almost makes an immediate impact!! He side-foots a cross but his effort is blocked by Manuel Neuer.
71
Arsenal make a double substitution. Tomas Rosicky replaces Aaron Ramsey and striker Olivier Giroud comes on.
70
At the other end, Podolski skips past two defenders and bursts into the area but his subsequent low shot is cleared by the defence.
67
A curling free-kick from Bayern midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger goes over the crossbar.
67
Bayern fully regain control after a brief spell of Arsenal attack. They are now the more likely side to score.
64
Bayern Munich make their first substitution, Dutch winger Arjen Robben replaces Franck Ribery, who had a subdued game.
63
Bayern midfielder Javi Marinez heads over the bar from a corner.
60
Arsenal are searching for the equaliser after scoring a bizarre goal, but Bayern are still holding firm. The hosts must find a way to penetrate a tight defence if they are to restore parity. 
57
That goal, which came against the run of play, may spur Arsenal into action. The rest of the second half should be very exciting, hopefully.
56
Arsenal narrow the gap with a bizarre goal! A corner evades a crowd of defenders and poorly-positioned goalkeeper Manuel Neuer to fall in the path of Lukas Podolski, who heads home into an empty net.
55 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR ARSENAL!!!
52
Bayern Munich are brilliantly pressing high up the pitch, making Arsenal's build-up play more difficult.
49
Will Arsenal be able to create some goal-scoring opportunities? Bayern continue from where they left off the first half, pouring forward in a bid to score the third.
The second half is underway
The referee blows his half-time whistle, Bayern deservedly go to the locker room with a 2-0 lead
45
Bayern waste a clear-cut chance to add the third!! Mario Mandzukic rises unmarked to head a pinpoint Lahm cross just wide of the post. 
42
Arsenal are having the better possession in the latter stages of the first half but, still, no threats whatsoever.
36
A slip by Bayern defence David Alaba allows Bacary Sagna to steal possession but, once again, Arsenal fail to make the most of the chance as Bayern's defence clears the danger.
34
Bayern's steadfast defence is making life difficult for Arsenal.
30
Bayern Munich are still in control. However, both sides eased off in the second quarter of an hour.
27
Arsenal are gradually improving, but they have yet to create any goal-scoring opportunities.
23
The gulf in class between both sides is evident. Bayern are likely to add to their tally and virtually secure their progress to the last eight.
21
Thomas Muller doubles Bayern's lead with a follow-up effort, firing into the roof of the net from close range after keeper Szczesny could only parry a Daniel van Buyten header following a corner.
21 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR BAYERN MUNICH!!!
19
Arsenal are still struggling to get out of their own half, with Bayern piling on pressure upfront.
15
Bayern Munich dominate the first quarter of an hour, opening the scoring and mounting pressure as Arsenal's poor defence leaves huge gaps.
15
Arsenal's mis-placed passes in midfield are hampering their build-up play.
11
Bayern are having the upper hand, Arsenal look shell-shocked after falling behind.
7
Toni Kroos opens the scoring in Bayern's first attacking attempt. Arsenal's shaky backline fails to clear a tame cross from Thomas Muller and Kroos pounces to send a right-foot volley that bounces off the ground and goes past keeper Wojciech Szczesny
.
7 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR BAYERN MUNICH!!
6
Arsenal forward Theo Walcott exposes the gaps in Bayern's left side again but his low cross is cleared by the Bavarian defence.
3
First foray forward! Santi Czorla makes a darting run down the right but his low cross is intercepted by Bastian Schweinsteiger
.
2
Arsenal are roared on by their enthusiastic and vociferous supporters at the packed Emirates Stadium. The players will be eager not to let them down once again.
The match is underway
21:45
The match is about to start, are you ready?
21:30
Both sides step onto the pitch for the warm-up routine, 15 minutes before kick-off.
21:15
Bayern Munich’s starting line-up: Manuel Neuer, David Alaba, Dante, Daniel van Buyten, Philipp Lahm, Bastian Schweinsteiger, Javi Martinez, Franck Ribery, Thomas Muller, Toni Kroos, Mario Mandzukic
20:50
Arsenal’s starting line-up: Wojciech Szczesny, Bacary Sagna, Per Mertesacker, Thomas Vermaelen, Laurent Koscielny, Mikel Arteta, Jack Wilshere, Theo Walcott, Aaron Ramsey, Santi Cazorla, Lukas Podolski.
20:45
One hour remaining before kick-off, stay tuned for Ahram Online's live coverage of the anticipated clash.
19:00
Arsenal will miss Kieran Gibbs due to a thigh injury, while defender Laurent Koscielny is doubtful due to illness.
19:00
Bayern Munich will miss Jerome Boateng due to suspension and Claudio Pizarro (illness) and Holger Badstuber (knee injury).
18:30
Bayern Munich, on the other hand, are enjoying a superb run of form. They runaway Bundesliga leaders, who reached the Champions League final twice in the last three years, have won 18 of 22 league games.
18:30
The Champions League represents the last chance for the success-starved Arsenal to end their eight-year title drought, having been knocked out of the FA Cup and League Cup. They also virtually lost hopes of winning the Premier League title.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 