New campaign in Egypt dispels cancer-related myths
Marking World Cancer Day, BCFE launches a campaign to dispel myths and raise awareness
The world celebrated World Cancer Day on 4 February by raising awareness, sharing new statistics and challenges in the field and celebrating success stories of survival and community help.
The International Cancer Control and the International Agency For Research On Cancer pointed out that the efforts to decrease cancer fatalities are in line with one of the Millennium Goals issued by The World Health Organisation that aim to reduce deaths resulting from non-contagious diseases by 25 per cent by the year 2025. Up to 1.5 million deaths from cancer can be prevented if people had the awareness and the means to take the right step at the right time.
In Egypt, where, according to latest statistics, breast cancer accounts for 37.5 per cent of all cancer cases, The Breast Cancer Foundation emphasised that it is of utmost importance that governments, NGO's and the community collaborate to eliminate the cultural stumbling blocks to early confrontation of the disease. Ultimately, cultural taboos increase the number of deaths due to breast cancer.
Dr Mohamed Shaalan, professor of surgical oncology, Director of the Early Detection Unit at the National Cancer Institute - Cairo University and the Breast Cancer Foundation of Egypt chairman stressed that the numbers of non-contagious disease cases are on the rise because of various cultural and social obstacles and myths still prevailing in society.
In this regard, the BCFE launched a campaign called "Know your risk…get screened" and issued the following guidelines:
Lifestyle guidelines:
1.       Shed the extra weight, avoid obesity
2.       Give breast feeding your best shot, it reduces the risk
3.       Avoid alcohol
4.       Work out or perform any kind of moderate, sustained exercise
5.       Post-menopause hormones are a risk; use them within limits and under supervision
Regarding early detection
1.       Ask your doctor about risk factors in general and whether you are vulnerable to any in particular. If you do have a particular risk, consult regarding the convenient screening method.
2.       Regarding the way your breast looks, know what’s normal and consult immediately with your doctor if any abnormal change occurs.
3.       A clinical breast exam should take place every 3 years starting the age of twenty and on a yearly basis after forty.
4.       If you are at an average risk, you should perform a mammogram every year after the age of forty.
Help dispel four myths still embedded in Egyptian culture:
1.       It is a myth that cancer is only a health issue, as it has social, economical and developmental implications.
2.       It is a myth that cancer mainly occurs to the rich, or the elderly or in developed countries. The disease does not differentiate between people according to their financial or social status. The risk is equal, and it isn’t confined to societies in developed countries.
3.       It is a myth that once you fall victim to the disease you can’t evade death. Many types and cases that we deemed fatal in the past now have cures and solutions.
4.       It is a myth that cancer is a matter of fate and you can do nothing about it, as almost 30 per cent of cases can be avoided if the right step is taken at the right time.
 
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 