Culture Events: Picks for the weekend
Ahram Online's arts and culture team highlight the most interesting and diverse culture events this weekend in Cairo and beyond, Thursday through Sunday (14-17 February)
Baheya concert at Photopia at 7pm
Baheya is made up of a group of musicians who met at the Occupy Cabinet sit-in during the months of November and December 2011. They were singing the revolutionary songs of Sayid Darwish and Sheikh Imam, music which continues to reflect the revolutionary spirit of Egypt's streets. More information
here
.
15 El-Somal Street, Korba, Heliopolis, Cairo
'The Silent Majority Speaks' film screening at Beirut at 7pm
'The Silent Majority Speaks' is a film by an anonymous collective calling themselves 'The Silent Collective.' This 90-minute, 2010 production provides viewers with footage of the 2009 resistance movement to the results of the presidential election won by Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmedinejad. The film is a collection of footage from 14 cell-phones taken by different people, along with archival footage of Iran's struggle against tyranny.  Read more
here
.
11 Mahmoud Sedky Street, Agouza, Giza
Georges Kazazian at El-Sawy Culturewheel at 8pm
Georges Kazazian on oud will be joined by Patricia Draeger from Switzerland, on accordion, along with Egyptian musicians: Mohamed Seif El Yazal, on contrabass, and Mahmoud Abdel Hafeez, on percussion. The concert will fuse oriental music with jazz.
26th of July street, Zamalek, Cairo
Telepoetic concert at Makan at 8pm
Telepoetic mix acoustic and electronic sounds. The band was formed in 2009 and has been performing since their debut concert at the 100copies Electronic Music Festival. They have since taken part in festivals in Alexandria, Cairo and abroad, in addition to hosting their own concerts. Read more
here
.
1 Saad Zaghloul Street, in front of Saad Zaghloul Tomb, Mounira, Cairo
 
Friday 15 February
Sam Shalabi concert at 100copies music space at 8pm
Guitarist and founder of 'Shalabi Effect' performs his solo set mainly influenced by psychedelic rock but experiments with other genres. He also plays the oud and a variety of instruments. Entrance is free.
22 Talaat Harb Street, Downtown, Cairo
Chaotic Order: Ahmed Kassim at Safarkhan Art Gallery
This second solo painting exhibition by Ahmed Kassim at Safarkhan Gallery, which has been moving closer and closer towards exhibiting works by younger artists, tackles the “Chaotic Order” pervading contemporary Egyptian society. His canvases resemble oversized board games with symbols representing different facets of local culture and politics.
Kassim is part of a generation of experimental artists producing groundbreaking, politically charged art that probes reflection over the “game of life.”
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
 
Saturday 16 February
Met Opera live transmission at Cairo Opera House at 7.30pm
Metropolitan Live HD transmission will present Verdi's Rigoletto. Michael Mayer’s new production of this captivating opera, a tragedy of lust, betrayal, and revenge sets it in Las Vegas in 1960. Željko Lucic sings the title role.
Cairo Opera House small hall, Zamalek, Cairo
Milan Bajovich at Alexandria Centre of Art at 8pm
Milan Bajovich's concert is part of the promotion of his new album "Malakut." The word Malakut originates from Islamic and Sufi culture, where it designates the world of primeval images. Bajovich, violinist and composer, takes listeners to an original musical journey
1 Tariq Al Horreya, Alexandria tel. 03 4956745
'Egyptian, I am' Solo sculpture exhibition by Maged Mekhail at ArtTalks Gallery
A solo sculpture exhibition opens this month at ArtTalks Gallery, showcasing artwork by emerging artist Maged Mekhail. ArtTalks is hunting for Egypt's best up-and-coming artists, and 31-year-old Mekhail made the cut. A student of great sculptor Adam Henein, Mekhail's career has grown over the years. He was awarded the Sculpture Award at the 2011 Youth Salon, organised by the Ministry of Culture. Influenced by Pharonic and Coptic symbols, the artist produces figurative sculptures that tackle the state of our Egyptian identity.
8 El Kamel Mohamed Street, Zamalek, Cairo 
 
Sunday 17 February
Qabila Film Festival at Ismailia Culture Center at 5pm
Public screenings for the 15 finalists from Egypt, Lebanon, Palestine, Spain and Luxembourg start this week in several venues in Cairo, Alexandria, Damanhour, Mansoura and Ismailia. The festival aims to showcase young talents in the world of filmmaking, and awards prizes in the categories of Best Film, Best Director, Best Screenplay and Audience Award.  Read more
here
.
In front of the Governorate building, Ismailia
'5 Broken Cameras' screening at Dina's Hostel at 7pm
The Oscar nominated documentary is directed by Palestinian Emad Burnat and Israeli Guy Davidi. The film is a firsthand account of an attack by Israeli soldiers on the residents of a West Bank village, who were practising non-violent resistance in the face of the expansion of Israeli settlements. The film's title refers to the number of cameras owned by Burnat, a resident of the village, that were broken by Israeli forces during the five years over which the film was shot. Read more
here
.
Dina's Art Center, 42 Abdel-Khalek Tharwat, Downtown, Cairo
Opening of 'Clouds for Sale' by Xavier Puigmarti at Mashrabia Gallery
Spanish artist Xavier Puigmarti, whose work highlights the effects of technology on the contemporary global society, is inspired by the hyper-connectivity social networks impose on our lives. His latest collection of paintings entitled “Clouds for Sale” is on exhibition this month at Mashrabia gallery.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
Latvian artists at the German Evangelical Church at 7.30pm
Countertenor Sergejs Jegers and pianist Ieva Misina Smite from Latvia, will give a performance at the German Evangelical Church. The programme includes works by Haendel, Purcell, J.S. Bach, Vivaldi, Cachini, Tosti, Masgani, Jallat, Kelpsa, Vetemaa and Lusens.
32 Galaa Street, Boulaq, Next to Al Ahram building
Swan Lake Ballet at the Cairo Opera House at 8pm
The Cairo Opera Ballet Company, with artistic director Erminia Kamel will perform Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake ballet. Cairo Opera Orchestra will be conducted by Nayer Nagui. The first performance is on Sunday and the ballet will continue until 21 February. On 26 and 27 February, the ballet will be performed in Alexandria. Read more
here
.
Cairo Opera House Main Hall, Zamalek, Cairo
 
Follow Arts and Culture updates on Twitter: 
@AhramOnlineArts
 and on our Facebook page: 
Ahram Online: Arts and Culture
 