Art Agenda: February exhibitions in Cairo
Cairo is booming with artwork in February, and Ahram Online picks the latest visual exhibitions open for viewing
A solo sculpture exhibition opens this month at ArtTalks Gallery, showcasing artwork by emerging artist Maged Mekhail. ArtTalks is hunting for Egypt's best up-and-coming artists, and 31-year-old Mekhail made the cut. A student of great sculptor Adam Henein, Mekhail's career has grown over the years. He was awarded the Sculpture Award at the 2011 Youth Salon, organized by the Ministry of Culture. Influenced by Pharonic and Coptic symbols, the artist produces figurative sculptures that tackle the state of our Egyptian identity.
8 El Kamel Mohamed Street, Zamalek, Cairo 
- Exhibition opens on 12 February and runs until 25 February
 
Chaotic Order: Ahmed Kassim at Safarkhan Art Gallery
This second solo painting exhibition by Ahmed Kassim at Safarkhan Gallery, which has been moving closer and closer towards exhibiting works by younger artists, tackles the “Chaotic Order” pervading contemporary Egyptian society. His canvases resemble oversized board games with symbols representing different facets of local culture and politics. Kassim is part of a generation of experimental artists producing groundbreaking, politically charged art that probes reflection over the “game of life.”
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition runs until 22 February
 
A Bride and a Horse: Assem Abdel Fattah at Al Kahila Art Gallery
"A Bride and a Horse" is made up of a series of vibrant paintings by Assem Abdel Fattah, depicting snapshots of everyday life in Egypt, including breakfast at a
foul
street cart, a farmer’s market, and a traditional
qahwa
or coffee shop. Abdel Fattah’s paintings are brightly coloured and uplifting, and his artwork bears a cubist, neo-expressionist style.
15 El Batal Ahmed Abdel Aziz Street, Mohandessin, Giza
- Exhibition opens on 14 February and runs until 28 February
 
Transient Chronicles: Mai Refky at 6 Contemporary Art Gallery
This solo exhibition by emerging contemporary artist Mai Refky (1976) is a collection of autobiographical abstract paintings she has produced since 2008.
6 Salah El-Deen Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 17 February and runs until 12 March, with an artist talk on 20 February
Alia's Drinks (Fruit Paradise – Moustache of an Old Man): Ramy Dozy at Mashrabia Gallery
Ramy Dozy presents conceptual artwork inspired by the time he spent in Ard El-Lewa, immersed in a community that clearly contrasts with what he is accustomed to. He watched Alia, a girl growing up in Ard El-Lewa, for days on end. The works he produced do not document this strange, yet enthralling place, but rather reveal the inner dialogue in his mind during his time there. Dozy explains it as follows: "The Alia project moves away from the rational mind in an attempt to search and explore a world specific and unique to 'Alia.' This virtual construction is a result of merging the real world with the theoretical world, expanding into a visual and mental phenomena, producing a distinct visual language for Alia."
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 20 January and runs until 14 February
 
Clouds for Sale: Xavier Puigmarti at Mashrabia Gallery
Spanish artist Xavier Puigmarti, whose work highlights the effects of technology on the contemporary global society, is inspired by the hyper-connectivity social networks impose on our lives. His latest collection of paintings entitled “Clouds for Sale” is on exhibition this month at Mashrabia gallery.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 17 February and runs until 14 March
 
Recreating the Patterns: Young artists exhibit at the GIZ
The Mashrabia Gallery is collaborating with the GIZ office in Cairo to organise two exhibitions at the Zamalek venue; a solo show by prominent contemporary artist Shayma Kamel and a collective exhibition by prominent emerging artists: Hany Rashed, Ahmed El Shaer, Ibrahim El Haddad and Amr Fekry.
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, 4D El Gezira Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition runs until 22 February
Bronze Sculptues: Mostafa Abdel Moity at Zamalek Art Gallery
Mostafa Abdel Moity (1938) is known for his inventive compositions of geometric shapes, where his artwork, at times colourful paintings and at others monochromatic pencil drawings, create maps that appear as blueprints of the universe. The artist believes that art is the only salvation for mankind; without art humans would merely live, rather than truly exist. Abdel Moity is a multi-talented artist; in this exhibition at the Zamalek Art Gallery he exhibits bronze sculptures inspired by Pharaonic art and folk arts.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 17 February and runs until 12 March
Dialogue of Mind & Soul: George Bahgoury at Al Masar Gallery
Bahgoury, a Picasso-influenced pillar of contemporary Egyptian art, exhibits reflective paintings in a show entitled Dialogue of Mind & Soul. Bahgoury studied art at the Faculty of Fine Arts in Cairo in 1955 before moving to Paris. The prolific artist has experimented with drawing, engraving, literature and cinema alongside painting and caricature.
Baehler's Mansion 157b, 26 July Street, side entrance on Isaac Jacob Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 20 January and runs until 21 February
 
Alienation: Sami Aboul Azm at The Art Lounge
Alienation, held at the newly-established The Art Lounge, affiliated with Al Masar Gallery, is the first solo exhibition by contemporary painter Sami Aboul Azm (1967). The paintings showcased will tackle the sense of estrangement pervading today’s tumultuous, post-revolutionary society as Aboul Azm attempts to depict the prevalent emotions of fear and separation in Egypt.
Baehler's Mansion 157b, 26 July Street, side entrance on Isaac Jacob Street, Zamalek, Cairo
- Exhibition opens on 20 January and runs until 21 February
 
E-art suggestions
You can also check out the following online galleries:
-
ArtsMart
-
Safarkhan E-gallery
For daily arts and culture updates, follow
@AhramOnlineArts
on Twitter and Ahram Online: Arts and Culture on
Facebook
.
 