Egypt's Morsi calls for political dialogue ahead of parliament polls, promises Port Said visit 'soon'
In Sunday TV interview, President Morsi calls for dialogue to ensure 'transparent' elections, promises imminent trip to restive canal city and heaps praise on army, intelligence apparatus
In a televised interview on Sunday night, President Mohamed Morsi invited Egyptian political parties and movements to a 'national dialogue' at the presidential palace on Monday, 25 February, to discuss "guarantees for fair and transparent parliamentary elections" slated for late April.
"I plan to visit Port Said soon," Morsi said in the interview, which was broadcast on the Mehwar television channel and conducted by television host Amr El-Lithy, Morsi's former media advisor.
The president added that the state was "serious" about reinstating Port Said's free-trade zone and launching independent investigations into the clashes that rocked the canal city on 26 and 27 January. Morsi went on to say that the families of Port Said's "martyrs" would each receive LE75,000 in compensation.
Demonstrators in Port Said have been conducting an ongoing campaign of 'civil disobedience,' which has led to the closure of most of the city's primary institutions – including companies, factories, official authorities (including the local customs authority) and the East Port Said maritime port – for eight consecutive days.
President Morsi also praised the Egyptian Armed Forces and intelligence apparatus.
"I will support the armed forces as they continue to play their leading role in protecting the nation," he told El-Lithy, describing Egyptian General Intelligence as a "patriotic apparatus," members of which were committed to "protecting Egypt both internally and externally."
The president also spoke about Egypt's dire economic situation, describing it as extremely "difficult" and calling the recent wave of protests and strikes an "obstacle" to economic development. "Although protests and strikes are legal, they nevertheless serve to harm the economy and prevent us from achieving any economic advances," he said.
Morsi went on to promise to raise Egypt's minimum income tax bracket from LE9000 a month to LE12,000, which would exempt at least two and a half million families in Egypt from income taxes. He also said there were plans to allocate LE600 million of the state budget towards the renovation of 68 shanty towns throughout the country. Morsi also thanked Egyptians living overseas for their ongoing efforts to raise remittances sent home to Egypt.
The president went on to urge Egyptian journalists and media personnel to abide by a code of ethical conduct. "The media should purge itself," Morsi asserted. "We all stand to lose if Egypt loses," he added, stressing that he welcomed constructive criticism. 
More details to come
 