Full time: PSG 1-1 Valencia (European Champions League)
Paris Saint-Germain reach the European Champions League quarter-finals after a 1-1 draw at home to Spain's Valencia lifted them through 3-2 on aggregate
A scrappy affair is coming to end. The referee adds three minutes of stoppage time.
Valencia's efforts are tame in the dying minutes. PSG are close to reaching the quarters.
PSG make their final substitution, the ineffective Lucas is replaced with Mamadou Sakho.
Nine minutes remaining. PSG are looking to protect their slender advantage.
Valencia are piling on pressure up front, but their efforts are blocked by a steadfast PSG defence marshaled by Alex.
Jonas, who scored Valencia's goal, is replaced with striker Nelson Valdez.
With 15 minutes remaining, PSG are eager to score and put the result beyond doubt and Valencia are seeking to level the aggregate score.
A shot by PSG's Clement Chantome is blocked by Valencia's keeper.
Valencia's hopes are still alive though. They need one goal to level the aggregate score.
Substitute Gameiro skips past a couple of defenders following a bursting run, the ball slips into the path of Lavezzi whose initial shot is blocked by the keeper. He makes no mistake on the rebound. 
Valencia are trying to build on their lead, but they rarely penetrate PSG's backline.
PSG make their second substitution, Kevin Gameiro replaces Thiago Motta.
Another goal for Valencia would give them the lead on aggregate
Jonas fires an unstoppable right-foot shot from the edge of the area that leaves the PSG keeper with no chance. Valencia are firmly back in the tie.
PSG are relying on Pastore and Lavezzi to find the net and put the result beyond doubt. However, both men are still unable to really trouble Valencia's defence.
Valencia need to score two goals and avoid conceding any if they are to go through. That possibility seems unlikely.
PSG keeper Salvatore Sirigu parries a shot from Jonas.
PSG defenders are easily clearing crosses from Valencia.
Four minutes remaining before halftime. It's still all square in a boring game.
Valencia's defender Victor Ruiz is booked for a challenge on Blaise Matuidi
Both sides are restricted to some tame long-range efforts which trouble neither keeper.
Valencia keeper Guaita handles a low cross from Pastore from the byline.
A soldado low cross finds Jonas on the edge of the area but his mis-hit shot goes poorly wide.
It's still a dull affair, with both sides unable to mount threats.
PSG are forced to make an early substitution. Full-back Christophe Jallet is replaced with Gregory van der Wiel after picking up an injury.
Some wayward passes are hindering both sides.
Valencia's Albelda receives a yellow card.
A long-range shot by Valencia's veteran midfielder David Albelda goes high over.
Valencia now have the better possession, seeking to find some gaps in PSG's backline.
PSG were better in the first quarter of an hour, but Valencia still look dangerous on the break.
A Valencia breakaway ends with Roberto Soldado firing a shot straight at the keeper despite going one-on-one.
PSG appear lively with some pacy moves upfront.
PSG forward Lucas evades his challenger but his subsequent shot from a tight angle goes wide.
In Valencia's first attack, Jonas blasts high over the bar from inside the area.
PSG have the better of the early exchanges. They are keen to put the tie to bed.
A shot by PSG's Javier Pastore from a tight angle is blocked by a defender.
First half-chance for PSG. Ezequiel Lavezzi just fails to get on the end of a through ball as Valencia keeper Vicente Guaita rushes out to clear the danger.
10 minutes to go. Valencia are in front of a mountain to climb to overturn their first leg defeat. It will be quite hard against a star-studded PSG side with great experience.
21:25
The players are warming up now just a few minutes before the game. The atmosphere seems quiet enthusiastic.
21:05
David Beckham is on the bench.
20:55
Lineups for both teams
PSG:
30-Salvatore Sirigu; 26-Christophe Jallet, 2-Thiago Silva, 13-Alex, 17-Maxwell; 20-Clement Chantome, 28-Thiago Motta, 14-Blaise Matuidi, 27-Javier Pastore; 29-Lucas, 11-Ezequiel Lavezzi
Valencia:
13-Vicente Guaita; 14-Antonio Barragan, 18-Victor Ruiz, 22-Jeremy Mathieu, 3-Aly Cissokho; 21-Daniel Parejo, 6-David Albelda; 8-Sofiane Feghouli, 24-Tino Costa, 7-Jonas; 9-Roberto Soldado
20:42
Despite a 2-1 away win, coach Carlo Ancelotti doesn't want his players to ease up in order to reach the quarters for the first time since 1995
20:00
Beckham may start the game tonight to provide PSG some inspiration at the Parc des Princes.
19:00
Valencia will miss injured Adil Rami and Ricardo Costa who is struggling for fitness.
17:30
PSG will be without top-scorer Zlatan Ibrahimovic and midfielder Marco Verratti, who are both suspended.
Stay tuned for Ahram Online special live coverage for UEFA Champions League last16-match between France’s Paris Saint-Germain and Valencia of Spain.
PSG are eager to qualify for the quarterfinals after 18 years of absence especially after they defeated the Spanish team 1-2 in the first leg last month.
The match kicks off at 19:45 GMT (21:145 CLT).
Read the full preview
here
.              
More Updates to follow
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 