Relive: Bayern Munich 0-2 Arsenal (European Champions League)
Bayern Munich advance to the European Champions League quarter-finals on the away-goal rule following a 3-3 aggregate draw, having lost 2-0 at home to Arsenal on Wednesday
Arsenal desperately pile on pressure, throwing everything forward.
The referee adds three minutes of stoppage time. Can Arsenal stun the Allianz Arena crowd?
We can expect now frenetic moments. Arsenal need just one goal to go through and cause a huge upset.
French defender Laurent Koscielny towers at the near post to head home a corner from Santi Cazorla.
Arsenal's hopes are fading. Bayern are holding firm with six minutes remaining.
Ukranian midfielder Anatoliy Tymoshchuk replaces Toni Kroos.
What a chance for Arsenal!! Gervinho spurns a chance to revive Arsenal's hopes. He superbly exchanges passes with Cazorla and evades his challenger with a fine turn but his low shot goes just wide from six yards out.
With 13 minutes remaining, Arsenal pour forward in a desperate bid to score two goals.
In the day's other round of 16 clash, Malaga take a
Robben cuts inside his marker from the right but blasts his curling shot wide from inside the area.
Bayern introduce towering striker Mario Gomez instead of the ineffective Mario Mandzukic.
A double substitution for Arsenal, Ivorian forward Gervinho replaces midfielder Aaron Ramsey and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain comes on instead of Walcott.
The Bavarians squander a clear-cut chance, however! Robben races clear but his subsequent shot with his weak right foot is blocked by Fabianski.
Bayern have the better possession, but they are struggling to create genuine goal-scoring opportunities.
Bayern waste a chance!! A curling shot from Luis Gustavo goes just wide from the edge of the area.
A Bayern breakaway ends with Muller shooting from a tight angle but it strikes Mertesacker and goes to the straight hands of the keeper
Chances are few and far between. Both sides are still trying some tame shots which trouble neither keeper.
Bayern's Lahm is booked for a challenge on Cazorla.
Walcott breaks clear but the linesman raises his offside flag. Television replays show that the decision is wrong.
Arsenal striker Olivier Giroud tries a long-range volley that goes high over.
Arsenal defenders are clearing a barrage of crosses from Bayern wingers.
Bayern are persistently trying some long-range shots, but to no avail.
Another powerful shot from Toni Kroos goes over the crossbar. Bayern make a lively start to the second period.
Robben comes close to drawing Bayern level! He makes a bursting run and fires a low shot that narrowly misses the target.
In the day's other round of 16 tie, Malaga take a
Arsenal defender Kieran Gibbs is booked for a clumsy challenge on Arjen Robben.
A cautious start to the game by both sides.
Both sides are warming up, 15 minutes before the game. Can Arsenal stage a remarkable comeback?
Arsenal's starting line-up: 21-Lukasz Fabianski; 25-Carl Jenkinson, 4-Per Mertesacker, 6-Laurent Koscielny, 28-Kieran Gibbs; 16-Aaron Ramsey, 8-Mikel Arteta, 7-Tomas Rosicky, 19-Santi Cazorla, 14-Theo Walcott , 12-Oliver Giroud.
Arsenal forward Theo Walcott disappointed in a lone striker role in the first leg, but he remains one of the Gunners' most reliable forwards.
Only twice in the Champions League has a team lost the home leg of a knockout round match and survived by winning the away leg. Ajax Amsterdam did it in 1995-96 against Panathinaikos and Inter Milan did it in the last 16 in 2010-11 -- coincidentally against Bayern.
40
Some wayward passes are hindering both teams now, with five minutes remaining before halftime.
37
The clear-cut chances remain scarce now.
34
And end-to-end game is so unpredictable. Either team can score now.
31
The match is exciting now. Arsenal's Walcott runs down the right and sends a dangerous cross that goes begging. It's an evenly balanced tie now.
30
Bayern waste another chance! Thomas Muller steals possession from Arsenal defender Per Mertesacker and hits the side netting from a tight angle.
28
Bayern winger Arjen Robben cuts inside his marker and sends a low shot that goes narrowly wide.
25
At the other end, a low shot by Toni Kroos is handled by Fabianski.
24
Czech midfielder Rosicky attempts to pounce on a mistake from Alaba but Bayern keeper Manuel Neuer intercepts to clear the danger.
20
A tame cross by Bayern left-back David Alaba is easily collected by Fabianski. Arsenal need to push forward if they are to build on their surprising lead.
18
Bayern press Arsenal high up the pitch.
15
Arsenal clinically found the net in the first quarter of an hour but Bayern Munich soon gained control.
15
A low shot from Bayern full-back Philipp Lahm is blocked by the Arsenal defence, which so far looks more solid than the first leg.
13
Bayern move the ball around smoothly as Arsenal ease off after taking an early lead.
10
Brazilian midfielder Luis Gustavo's right-foot volley goes over the bar as Bayern pour forward.
8
Bayern Munich begin to find their rhythm after a poor start. They now have the better possession.
5
In Bayern's first attempt, Toni Kroos shots from distance but his effort is saved by Arsenal keeper Lukasz Fabianski
.
4
What a dream start for the Gunners! French striker Oliver Giroud fires home into an empty net after a low cross from winger Theo Walcott eluded the keeper following a defensive lapse. Arsenal now need two more goals to go ahead on aggregate.
20:50
Bayern Munich's starting line-up: 1-Manuel Neuer; 21-Philipp Lahm, 5-Daniel Van Buyten, 4-Dante, 27-David Alaba; 8-Javi Martinez, 30-Luiz Gustavo; 25-Thomas Mueller, 39-Toni Kroos, 10-Arjen Robben; 9-Mario Mandzukic.
18:00
If Arsenal are eliminated tonight, they will finish an eighth consecutive season empty-handed. Bayern, on the other hand, are looking to finally win the prestigious Champions League trophy after going close on two occasions, only to lose to Inter Milan and Chelsea in the 2010 and 2012 finals respectively. 
17:00
Arsenal striker Giroud thinks that an early goal will be the key for a miraculous comeback. He hopes his teammates would be inspired by Barcelona's performance against AC Milan on Tuesday.
Stay tuned for Ahram Online special live update coverage for Germany's giants Bayern Munich clash with Arsenal of England in the second leg of the European Champions League last-16 round.
It won't be an easy mission for the Gunners as the Bundesliga giants silenced them 3-1 in London last month putting them in the driving seat for a spot in the quarter-finals for the third time in the last four seasons.
Probable teams:
Bayern Munich:
1-Manuel Neuer; 21-Philipp Lahm, 5-Daniel Van Buyten, 4-Dante, 27-David Alaba; 8-Javi Martinez, 30-Luiz Gustavo; 25-Thomas Mueller, 39-Toni Kroos, 10-Arjen Robben; 9-Mario Mandzukic
Arsenal:
1-Wojciech Szczesny; 25-Carl Jenkinson, 4-Per Mertesacker, 5-Thomas Vermaelen, 2-Abou Diaby; 14-Theo Walcott, 8-Mikel Arteta, 19-Santi Cazorla, 10-Jack Wilshere; 9-Lukas Podolski, 12-Oliver Giroud
Referee:
Pavel Kralovec (Czech Republic) (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; editing by Martyn Herman)
Read the full preview
here
The match kicks-off at 19:45 GMT (21:45 CLT).
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 