Muslim Brotherhood Statement on January 25 Revolution Anniversary Violent Incidents
While some mark the 2nd anniversary of the Revolution with sincere efforts to help low-income Egyptians, some others wage a desperate war of mindless mayhem, destruction and vandalism.
With Egyptians preparing to reap  some of the fruits of their great January 2011 Revolution, to complete  their march on the road to genuine democracy and to build the homeland’s  constitutional institutions, they devote themselves to honest patriotic  work, construction, community services and support for the poor – to  rebuild State institutions, improve facilities and create proper  investment climate, endeavoring to achieve real progress and make all  citizens across the country feel safe and secure.
However, as the people hoped revolution objectives would soon be  accomplished, particularly retribution on killers of revolutionaries,  they were shocked to live through a repugnant nightmare of dubious  characters waging an almost full-scale war, seeking to turn hope into  despair, and joy into terror, death and destruction, by inciting  subversion and the use of violence and thuggery, attacking city halls  and police stations, burning historical buildings and railway stations,  blocking roads and subway lines, tunnels and bridges, and torching  public and private facilities and offices.
Incidentally, some of the torched offices are located in residential  buildings, which threatened the lives of innocent Egyptians there.  Needless to say, all this violence had a tremendously negative impact on  a lot of people’s businesses in many provinces throughout the country.
Looking not too far back, we note that the most important features of  the January 25, 2011 Revolution were its peaceful nature, the former  regime's aggression and killing of unarmed demonstrators. Now, we find  groups of thugs, gangs and so-called Black Bloc militias violently  attack policemen, innocent citizens, government institutions and public  and private property.
Perhaps this is not entirely surprising after Egyptian private media’s  persistent campaign of deliberate vilifying and misinformation that has  been charging people with hatred against the regime, urging them to  subvert its legitimacy, even publishing details of sabotage plots a few  days before they were carried out. This indicates that someone is  masterminding, funding and repeating these subversion plots in a number  of provinces.
Meanwhile, the resounding silence of political opposition parties and  figures who never condemn these barbaric atrocities against our beloved  homeland and the great Egyptian people, with some even gleefully  welcoming them, and some others endeavoring to lend political cover and  implicit support to such dreadful crimes, may well implicate such  parties.
In various parts of the country, masses of ordinary Egyptian people  realizing the seriousness of the threat to the homeland, to all citizens  and the whole country’s future, came out to face up to those saboteurs.  Those patriotic people represent the nation’s conscience and spirit  that refuses corruption and the corrupt. They will remain resolved to  complete the march of the revolution and achieve their goals so every  citizen earns the fruits for which martyrs gave their lives: decent  dignified living, responsible freedom, and social justice covering the  entire society.
The Muslim Brotherhood pays a sincere tribute to police officers who  performed their duties and did everything in their power in the defense  of their country, its people, institutions and property against  saboteurs, vandals and anarchists.
Achievement of the objectives of the revolution is a responsibility we  should all shoulder together. All Egyptians must condemn those violent  criminals and hold them accountable in accordance with the provisions of  the law. It certainly is most absurd that such individuals or groups  should pretend they are claiming martyrs’ rights with yet more unlawful  killings and bloodshed.
The Muslim Brotherhood
Cairo - January 26, 2013.