Arif: Freedom and Justice Party Actively Seeks Serious National Dialogue
As Egypt opposition parties persistently seek to ditch parliamentary elections, the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party works for dialogue and national harmony to end opposition protest violence.
 Dr. Murad Ali, Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) media adviser, said that the FJP does not engage in the violent political turbulence in the Egyptian arena, adding: "The FJP believes that calls to violence by opposition parties detract from their credibility and erodes their popularity, which will make them stop, eventually".
In statements to Anatolia news agency, Ali explained: "The FJP still believes that genuine national dialogue with all political parties, including the opposition, is imperative. Therefore, the FJP welcomes all initiatives to reach a real, meaningful dialogue.
"At the same time, the FJP believes ongoing acts of violence in the Egyptian street are attempts by some quarters to dodge the elections – the legitimate democratic process."
Dr. Ali further said that the opposition, mainly the National Salvation Front (NSF), bears full responsibility for the consequences of demonstrations, which always end in violence, adding that the NSF’s reason for ongoing escalation was "the fear of forthcoming parliamentary elections and what they will mean. It is an attempt to block the way to this landmark station on the path of democratic transformation".
In response to a question about whether the FJP has any plans to end the recent violent scenes, Dr. Ali said: "We are not the State, and we are not the Government. But we always extend our hands for dialogue, as the only option to solve crises. We are confident no-one can prevent the people from going out to the ballot-box."
Meanwhile, Dr. Ahmed Arif, Muslim Brotherhood media spokesman, said that the group avoided involvement in current violence, because it would not fight ‘immoral’ battles intended to embarrass the newly-elected regime. Hence, "the group is committed to a calm, prudent discourse. It prefers to leave these events to be dealt with in a legal and institutional framework.
"The opposition should do four key things: revise the political dictionary, to eliminate vocabulary of violence and conflict; condemn current scenes of violence and lawlessness; withdraw – at least temporarily – in order to rationalize use of revolutionary tools; and refrain from ultimatums or preconditions before going for dialogue, accepting that such dialogue is for serious decision-making – with no limitations."