Muslim Brotherhood Statement on Unjust Trials for Leaders of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami
Translation of the Brotherhood’s statement condemning political trials targeting Islamists in Bangladesh, urging all relevant organizations to do their duty and halt violations of human rights.
With the wind of freedom blowing through the world, and in spite of international conventions that prohibit infringement on public and private freedoms, the trial in Bangladesh of seven leaders of the Islamic group (Jamaat-e-Islami) went ahead there before exceptional courts and with political rather than criminal charges.
While we reject and condemn these unjust and unfair trials that violate all international norms and conventions, we call upon all States, and in particular Muslim countries, and international bodies and institutions to apply all pressure to put right these trials and lift the injustice befalling political detainees in Bangladesh and to apply pressure, politically and morally, to stop this human tragedy.
One of the purposes of our Sharia (Islamic law) is to safeguard people’s lives and honor. God Almighty also prohibited injustice for all believers. We must uphold Islam’s high values, principles and ideals, which certain parties talk about as they apply them only selectively.
We stress the need to release all those detained in custody pending investigations into this highly politicized case; and if necessary, they should receive a fair trial before their natural judges and with safeguards to ensure for them the rights enshrined in all constitutions and charters of the free world. Every individual, authority and institution should carry out their respective roles and duties rejecting these unjust trials.
We warn all those who take charge of our Muslim nation not to use their power in acts of injustice, oppression or revenge against the people or to get rid of regime opponents.
We are confident that the Islamic Summit Conference held in the Egyptian capital Cairo, after the glorious January 25 Revolution, will have a supportive attitude to the causes of our Muslim nation. We pray to God to guide them to serve the best interests of the nation, make restitution to the people, and lift injustice for all the oppressed.
“Think not that God is unaware of what the wicked do. He only gives them a respite…” (Quran – 14:42).
The Muslim Brotherhood
Cairo - February 7, 2013
 