Relive: Barcelona 1-3 Real Madrid (King's Cup semifinal 2nd leg)
Real Madrid reach the Spanish King's Cup final after a 3-1 defeat at arch-rivals Barcelona lifted them through with a 4-2 aggregate win
Left-back Jordi Alba holds off marker Sergio Ramos to side-foot home after a neat long ball from Iniesta. Barcelona score a consolation in the dying minutes.
A low shot by Andres Iniestia misses the target from inside the area.
Tempers flare with five minutes remaining after Pepe theatrically falls on the ground after being touched by Busquets.
Ghanaian midfielder Michael Essien replaces Xabi Alonso for Real Madrid's final substitution.
A counter attack ends with Ronaldo forcing a fine save from Pinto after firing a low shot from a tight angle. He continues to outpace his hapless markers.
Barcelona are aimlessly moving the ball around.
Real Madrid's tough-tackling defender Pepe comes on instead of Ozil.
That win is likely to ease pressure on coach Jose Mourinho, whose side will face Barcelona again next weekend in the Spanish Laliga before taking on Manchester United in a crucial Champions League tie next week.
A night to forget for the Catalans, who are outplayed by their arch-rivals. Barcelona will have lots of work to do to regain their formidable form.
The third substitution for Barcelona, Xavi is replaced with Tiago.
Barcelona's Christiano Tello replaces the ineffective Pedro.
Real Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain is replaced with Callejon
Youngster Raphael Varane, who also scored in the first leg, towers above his markers to powerfully head home the third. Real Madrid have virtually ensured their win.
Barcelona are trying to break down a resilient defence, but in vain. They look a shadow of their old self.
Real Madrid are still very dangerous on the break. They can add to their tally.
Barcelona now need to score three goals to reach the final. That possibility is highly unlikely, given Real's superb display.
Cristiano Ronaldo scores again to leave Barcelona with an uphill to climb!! Angel Di Maria makes a darting run after a clearance by Sami Khedira, jinks into the area and superbly wrong-foots Puyol. His shot is parried by Pinto into the path of the Portuguese, who slots into an empty net.
Barca are clearly lacking imagination. Messi's trademark mazy runs are nowhere to be seen, and coach Jordi Roura is yet to make notable changes to his gameplan.
Successive shots from Barcelona are blocked by the defence. Busquets' subsequent effort is saved by Diego Lopez.
Real Madrid left back Coentrao wastes a chance to extend the gap!! He is released by a superb through pass on the right hand side of the penalty area but his weak shot is collected by Pinto.
Barcelona need to find the net to level the aggregate score but despite their domination of possession, Real still look the more likely side to double their lead.
Real Madrid are producing a spirited defensive display that is reminiscent of Milan's battling performance.
Four minutes remaining before the end of the first half, which is very entertaining. The end-to-end game is so exciting.
Barcelona defender Carles Puyol receives a yellow card for a rash challenge on Ronaldo.
From the ensuing free-kick, Messi's curling low free-kick narrowly misses the target.
Real Madrid full back Alvaro Alberoa is booked for a foul on Andres Iniesta on the edge of the area.
At the other end, a powerful shot from Ronaldo from a difficult angle is palmed by Barca keeper Pinto.
Barcelona players are furious at the referee.
Another penalty claim by Barcelona is waved away by the referee. Winger Pedro appears to have been shoved by Xabi Alonso after jinking into the area.
Barcelona are still kept at bay by Real's tight defence. Their display so far resembles the one they produced in a surprising 2-0 Champions League defeat by AC Milan.
Iniesta cuts in from the right to fire a fierce drive just wide.
Barca are pouring forward en masse, leaving gaps at the back which Real can expose once again.
Ronaldo is causing Barcelona's backline all kinds of problems. Barca's defence is struggling to keep an eye on him.
Ronaldo, the match's liveliest performer so far, sends a long-range left-foot shot high over.
Real Madrid made the most of their counter-attacking abilities in the first quarter of an hour. Barcelona have the better possession but they are yet to penetrate the visitors' defence.
Barcelona have a penalty claim waved away by the referee after Fabregas goes down in the area. Tense moments now.
Portuguese wizard Cristiano Ronaldo sends keeper Pinto the wrong way to stun the Nou Camp crowd. Real Madrid take an early lead.
Cristiano Ronaldo skips past Pique following a neatly-worked counter attack and the defender hauls him down.
Barcelona are relying on their trademark domination of possession to break down their opponents.
An angled Cesc Fabregas shot is handled by Real Madrid keeper Diego Lopez.
Barcelona make an explosive start  as they aim to take an early lead.
Lionel Messi almost breaks the deadlock!! Pedro feeds him inside the area after some superb individual effort but the Argentinean wizard's low shot from inside the area narrowly misses the target. Barcelona pile on pressure from the very beginning.
Andres Iniesta tries his luck from distance in Barca's first attempt. His long-range shot goes just wide.
Both sides are stepping onto the pitch amid a feverish atmosphere at the Nou Camp. Five minutes remaining before kick-off.
Real Madrid's starting line-up: Diego Lopez, Alvaro Arbeloa, Sergio Ramos, Raphael Varane, Coentrao, Xabi Alonso, Khedira, Di Maria, Ozil, Cristiano Ronaldo, Gonzalo Higuain.
Barcelona's starting line-up: Pinto, Dani Alves, Gerard Pique, Carles Puyol, Jordi Alba, Xavi, Sergio Busquets, Cesc Fabregas, Pedro, Lionel Messi, Andres Iniesta
20:00
Both sides also meet in a largely meaningless Clasico in the Spanish league next weekend, where Real Madrid are expected to field a weakened side ahead of a far more important Champions League clash against Manchester United.
19:20
Barcelona's probable line-up: Pinto, Dani Alves, Gerard Pique, Carles Puyol, Jordi Alba, Xavi, Sergio Busquets, Cesc Fabregas, Pedro, Lionel Messi, Andres Iniesta
.
19:15
Real Madrid's probable line-up: Diego Lopez, Arbeloa, Sergio Ramos, Raphael Varane, Coentrao, Xabi Alonso, Khedira, Di Maria, Ozil, Cristiano Ronaldo, Gonzalo Higuain
.
19:00
Treble-chasing Barcelona, who surprisingly lost 2-0 at AC Milan in last week's Champions League last 16 first-leg,  will need to improve their defence and attack after recent disappointing displays, according to assistant coach Jordi Roura.
18:30
Real Madrid are keen to avoid a Spanish Cup exit at the hands of their arch rivals after they virtually lost hopes of winning the Spanish league title. They only have the King's Cup and the Champions League to play for.
Stay tuned for Ahram Online's special live coverage of the clash between Real Madrid and Barcelona in the second leg of the Copa Del Rey semifinal on Tuesday at 20:00 GMT.
Cup holders Barca have a slight advantage ahead of Real's visit to the Nou Camp, which will be the 224th meeting between the arch rivals in all competitions, after they secured a 1-1 draw at the Bernabeu in last month's first leg.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
 
AhramOnlineSports
)
 