Relive Real Madrid's 1-1 draw with Manchester United in Champions League
Real Madrid were held to a 1-1 home draw by Manchester United in the first-leg of the UEFA Champions League round of 16 on Wednesday
Real Madrid block a low shot from Van Persie as United push forward in the end.
90+2
Ronaldo is thwarted from close range at the death following a cross from Modric!!
90
The referee adds three minutes of stoppage time.
88
Just two minutes remaining before the final whistle, Real are still looking for a decisive goal.
85
Ronaldo's long-range dipping free kick goes just over the bar.
84
United also make their final substitution, Anderson comes on instead of Wayne Rooney.
83
Real Madrid make their third and final substitution, Portuguese defender replaces midfielder Xabi Alonso.
81
Giggs dithers on the ball to waste a golden goal-scoring opportunity for United after a Real defender slipped.
79
De Gea collects a shot from Xabi Alonso from the edge of the area.
75
Real Madrid are desperately attempting to score a decisive goal, but they should be cautious as United are very dangerous on the break.
75
Real Madrid make their second substitution, Di Maria is replaced with Croatian playmaker Luca Modric.
73
The second substitution for Manchester United, winger Antonio Valencia replaces Danny Welbeck, who scored his side's goal.
72
Manchester Inited almost catch Real Madrid on the break!! A powerful Van Persie shot strikes the crossbar and he goes close moments later with a mis-hit kick that evades the keeper but is cleared off the line by Xabi Alonso.
71
In Wednesday's other Champions League last-16 tie, Ukraine's Shakhtar Donetsk take a
2-1 lead over Germany's Borussia Dortmund
70
Rio Ferdinand makes a timely interception to prevent Ronaldo from getting on the end of a low Higuain cross.
67
Manchester United are defending in numbers to thwart the hosts, who throw everything forward.
64
United make their first substitution, Japanese playmaker Kagawa is replaced with 39-year-old midfielder Ryan Giggs.
62
At the other end, Real Madrid's in-form defender Raphael Varane is making some great interceptions to deny United's forwards.
60
De Gea makes a superb save with his foot to deny a sliding effort from Coentrao at the far post.
59
Real Madrid are still in control, but they lack the killer instinct. Argentinean striker Gonzalo Higuain replaces Benzema for Real's first substitution as coach Jose Mourinho seeks to pep up his side.
55
Real Madrid are still unable to make the most of the countless chances they are creating. Will be they punished for their wastefulness?
53
Real Madrid go close!! Angel Di Maria's left-foot volley goes narrowly wide.
51
Manchester United midfielder Phil Jones is unsettling Real Madrid forwards with some tough tackles.
49
Ronaldo shoots on the turn from the edge of the area but his effort is saved by United keeper De Gea.
47
Manchester United make an explosive start to the second half, whipping in a couple of dangerous crosses.
The second half is underway
The referee blows his half-time whistle, Real Madrid 1-1 Manchester United
45+2
Manchester United lucky to go to the locker room with a 1-1 lead. They should have fallen behind after a flurry of Real Madrid chances.
45+1
Ronaldo squanders another goal-scoring opportunity. Ronaldo cuts ahead of Evans to head Coentrao's cross narrowly wide.
45
In Wednesday's other Champions League last-16 tie, Borussia Dortmund score to make it
1-1 against Ukrain's Shakhtar Donetsk
.
43
Ronaldo sends a powerful shot just over the bar. Real Madrid are unlucky not to go ahead.
41
Real Madrid winger Di Maria has a penalty claim waved away by the referee after being pushed by Phil Jones.
39
Real Madrid continue to waste chances!! Ozil steadies himself to shoot from a tight angle but he plays the ball across the box instead, allowing United's defence to eventually clear the danger.
38
Another chance for Real Madrid, Ozil holds off Evans to send a volley that is blocked by United keeper David de Gea.
36
In Wednesday's other Champions League last 16-game, Ukraine's Shakhtar Donetsk take the lead over Germany's Borussia Dortmund, thanks to a
goal from
Darijo Srna
35
Wayne Rooney also comes close with a low shot.
33
Welbeck almost regains United's lead!! He side-foots a cross just wide. 
32
In a rare forway forward, United striker Robin van Persie's low shot fails to trouble Real keeper Diego Lopez.
32
Real Madrid claim a deserved equaliser after launching a wave of attacks.
31
Ronaldo towers unmarked to send a powerful header home at the far post following an inch-perfect cross from Angel Di Maria. The Portuguese refuses to celebrate after scoring against his former club, who he led to the Champions League title in 2008.
30 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR REAL MADRID
28
Ronaldo's free-kick is blocked by the wall but he follows up with a powerful left-foot volley that goes narrowly wide.
26
Man United's defence is holding firm, clearing numerous crosses from Real Madrid wingers.
23
The Real Madrid fans are shell-shocked. The hosts pour forward to notch up the equaliser.
21
Man United forward Danny Welbeck rises above marker Sergio Ramos to head home a corner. Man United score against the run of play.
20 GOAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAL FOR MAN UNITED
18
Mesut Ozil makes a darting run towards the area but he dithers on the ball and his subsequent shot is blocked by the United defence.
15
Real Madrid totally dominate the first quarter of an hour, giving United's backline a torrid time. They are close to taking the lead.
12
Real Madrid are laying siege to United's area, and wizard Ronaldo is wreaking
havoc down the left flank.
8
Real Madrid forward Cristiano Ronaldo tries his luck from distance but his low long-range shot goes wide.
6
What a chance for Real Madrid!! Full-back Fabio Coentrao's low right-foot shot strikes the post from inside the area.
5
Manchester United striker Robin van Persie receives a yellow card.
5
Real Madrid make a lively start before their enthusiastic crowd at the Santiago Bernabeu.
2
Sami Khedira creates the first chance for Real Madrid. He drags his low shot wide of the post after a pass from
Karim Benzema.
The match is underway
21:40
Both teams are lining up for the national anthems.
21:20
Both sides are warming up, around 25 minutes before kick-off.
21:15
The last time both sides met, Real Madrid claimed a 4-3 victory at Old Trafford in a thrilling match that saw former Brazil striker Ronaldo score three goals 10 years ago.
21:00
The intriguing clash pits Real's Portuguese wizard Cristiano Ronaldo against his former club United for the first time since leaving for a world record fee of 80 million pounds ($125 million) in 2009.
20:50
Real Madrid starting line-up: Diego Lopez, Alvaro Arbeloa, Sergio Ramos, Raphael Varane, Fabio Coentrao, Sami Khedira, Xabi Alonso, Angel Di Maria, Mesut Ozil, Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema.
20:50
Manchester United starting line-up: David de Gea, Rafael, Patrice Evra, Rio Ferdinand, Jonny Evans, Michael Carrick, Phil Jones, Danny Welbeck, Shinji Kagawa, Wayne Rooney, Robin van Persie.
20:45
Welcome to Ahram Online's live coverage of the anticipated clash between Real Madrid and Manchester United in the first-leg of the European Champions League round of 16.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at 
@AO Sports
 
and on Facebook at 
AhramOnlineSports
)
 