Fashion Icon Alert: Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser Al Missned of Qatar
Wife of the Emir of Qatar, HH Sheikha Mozah has been identified by fashionistas and magazines globally as one of the most stylish women in the Middle East - and the world
With blogs across the internet dedicated to her immaculate sense of style and
Vanity Fair
voting her in as one of the most stylish women in the world, Her Highness Sheikha Mozah has gained global resonance as a fashion icon. Her unique sense of style, rich with confidence and power, is truly fit for royalty.
The Qatari royal family has recently snapped up Italian brand Valentino, expanding the brand with new stores across Europe, Asia and the Middle East and the company has not been affected by Europe’s debt problems or China’s economic slowdown. Chief Executive Stefano Sassi refused to release information on the global expansion, the details of the exchange and refused to affirm whether he had met HH Sheikha Mozah.
Also the UNESCO special envoy for basic and higher education, the First Lady was recognized for her great style and even greater substance, with the Huffington Post dubbing her “First Lady of the World” in 2011 as she emerged in the media during a time of political turmoil and unrest in the region. The third wife of the Qatar's Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Sheikha Mozah was also named one of Forbes’ 100 Most Powerful Women.
Her style blends tradition with a strong understanding of couture, setting itself apart as sophisticated, beautiful, different. Despite being a mother of seven, she maintains an impeccable figure.
Vogue
calls her an “authentic living legend, a strong example of emancipation.” Covering her hair in elegant turbans, her waisted, precise and modern pantsuits, flowing robes in bright colours, opulent yet balanced makeup and jewellery, she raises the bar of glamour for women in international politics.
Her pictures in glossy magazines and tabloids only tell half the story.  Not only is she a special correspondent to the UNESCO and vice-president of the Supreme Educational Council, she is also Chairperson of the Arab Democracy Foundation and President of the Qatar Foundation for Education. She is truly a woman committed to the advancement of the role of females in public life and increasing their participation in education.
Proving that long hemlines may be even sexier than a miniskirt, that bright colours make a great fashion statement and that fashion can be fun even for women over fifty, the fabulous First Lady has established herself as an icon in and out of fashion circles alike.
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 