Culture Events: Picks for the Weekend
Ahram Online's culture team bring you their recommendations for events in Cairo and beyond, Thursday through Sunday (28 February – 3 March)
This 1996 Tunisian documentary  film portrays the life of dancer Amel, a well-known entertainer appearing regularly at weddings and other festive occasions. Through interviews and live scenes, it traces Amel’s nightly work, also giving us a glimpse of her private everyday life. The film is being screened under the 'Ana Huna' initiative which picked out ten films deconstructing cultural stereotypes of women in the region. It will be followed by a discussion.
Kasr El-Shame'e Street, Al-Fakhareen, behind the Hanging Church and Amr Mosque, Cairo
 
Ahmed Mourad takes his readers on a journey of self-discovery as his protagonist Yehia leaves the mental institution he put himself in for five years to uncover a suspicious murder.
ALEF Bookstore, Mall of Arabia Branch, 6 October, Giza
The concert is the result of a workshop constructing artwork from the sounds of a city like Cairo. Yara El-Mekawy curates and Joke Lanz presents.
22 Talaat Harb Street, Downtown, Cairo
Former culture ministry official Mohsen Shaalan exhibits his artwork – completed during his recent one-year period in prison on charges of negligence for the infamous Van Gogh theft. The exhibition closes today. Read more 
.
Gezira Art Centre, 1 Al-Sheikh Al-Marsafi Street, Zamalek, Cairo
'A Bride and a Horse' is made up of a series of vibrant paintings by Assem Abdel-Fattah, depicting snapshots of everyday life in Egypt, including breakfast at a foul street cart, a farmers' market, and a traditional coffee shop. Abdel-Fattah’s paintings are brightly coloured and uplifting, and his artwork bears a cubist, neo-expressionist style. The exhibition closes today.
15 El-Batal Ahmed Abdel-Aziz Street, Mohandiseen, Giza
                                                       
The clown and street theatre troupe Outa Hamra (Red Tomato) in cooperation with Alexandrian independent multimedia group Safinet Nouh put on a street performance.
Habta Café, behind Abu Nasser, Downtown, Alexandria
An open mic night where each person gets seven minutes to present whatever they want. This weekend they are taking their events to Artellewa in Ard El-Lewa and the Culture Centre of Sakr Koreish in Maadi.
Artellewa Art Space, 19 Mohamed Ali El-Eseary Street, Ard El-Lewa, Giza, Cairo
Upcoming Egyptian artist Hend El-Falafy explores the current generation of women by taking a look at the past, drawing parallels between old and new generations across cultural landscapes.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Shima Youssef and Dr Suzan Radwan, who were mentored in art therapy under one of the best art therapy practitioners in Egypt, the late Dr Magdi Refaat, offer people a space to explore their personality and feelings through painting. Participants are welcome to join any time between 5pm and 9pm. Read more on art therapy 
.
Street 151, off Street 9, next to Midan El-Horreya, after El-Ezaby Pharmacy and in front of National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Maadi, Cairo.
Contemporary Image Collective hosts this film screening and talk as part of a bigger project involving a series of events taking a deeper look into news photography and photojournalism. The film follows the artist as he travels through the Democratic Republic of Congo. He discovers why poverty still exists there and tries to intervene himself with a project.
22 Abdel-Khalek Tharwat, 4th Floor, Downtown, Cairo
Expect traditional dance, vibrant music and colourful performances by El-Ghouri Dance Group this Saturday. They play every Saturday, Monday and Wednesday.
3 Mohamed Abdou Street, behind Al-Azhar Mosque, Cairo
Cairo's little studio at 10 Mahmoud Basiouny in downtown is to screen an experimental film exploring censorship in Cairo. 'Cairography' tests the limits of this fact through the human body's movements. The film will be screened at 8, 9 and 10pm respectively. Another set of screenings will be on Sunday.
10 Mahmoud Basiouny, 5th floor, Downtown, Cairo
This Italian circus, with its rich story, performs everyday in Cairo until 3 March. Their show includes acrobats, trapeze acts, clown shows, belly dancing and fire hoops, in addition to animal shows. Read our interview with the troupe 
.
Big Tent next to Sixth October Club, Sixth October City, Giza
Spanish artist Xavier Puigmarti, whose work highlights the effects of technology on contemporary global society, is inspired by the hyper-connectivity social networks impose on our lives. His latest exhibition entitled 'Clouds for Sale' is on this month at Mashrabia gallery.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
Follow Arts and Culture updates on Twitter: 
 and on our Facebook page: 
 