Port Said Ultras call for withdrawal of confidence in Egypt's Morsi
Amid ongoing tensions in Port Said, local Ultras football fan group calls on citizens to lodge official request for military to re-assume control of canal city
A number of Port Said residents on Wednesday went to the city's local Real Estate Registration (RER) office, the government's notarisation authority, where they attempted to notarise requests to withdraw confidence from President Mohamed Morsi and request that the military take charge of the restive canal city.
As a result, the head of the local RER temporarily closed the office, saying the practice was unconstitutional.
The residents' move came in response to calls made by a young leader of the Ultras Green Eagles – hardcore fans of Port Said's Masry football club – who is known by the pseudonym Ali 'Spicy.'
Port Said has been in turmoil since 26 January, when a Cairo court sentenced 21 city residents to death, including several Ultras Green Eagles members. The harsh verdicts led to days of violent clashes between protesters and police.
At least 42 Port Said residents were killed in the ensuing violence, which went on for several days.
Last week, activists issued calls for a campaign of 'civil disobedience' in the city to demand 'retribution' for slain protesters.
On Wednesday, the 'civil disobedience' campaign entered its eleventh day. According to an Al-Ahram reporter in Port Said, the city's schools remain closed, while factories are operating at half-capacity.
In a related development, former High Constitutional Court judge Tahani El-Gabali, along with a number of politicians known for their support of the military, held a conference on Tuesday at which they announced the launch of a new campaign calling for the army to reassume control of the country.
They accuse the Muslim Brotherhood, the group from which President Morsi hails, of "hijacking the country."
Following the recent violence in Port Said, Morsi had declared a state of emergency and a 9pm curfew in the three cities of the Suez Canal (Port Said, Suez and Ismailia).
 