Failing to quench strong victory, Ahly coach is still happy with 1-0 win
Ahly coach praises his players after a narrow 1-0 win over Ghazl El-Mahalla in the 1st matchday of the Egyptian Premier League, just grateful that games resumed
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry comments that the team did their best in their 1-0 win over Ghazl El-Mahalla, considering the team's key players were loaned out until the end of the current season.
Midfielder Mohamed Abou-Treika is approved to join UAE's Bani Yas, while duo Ahmed Fathi and Mohamed Nagy "Gedo" are wrapping up their travel procedures to play for English Championship side Hull City on a six-month loan.
"I agreed to loan out the three key players for reasons given by management," El-Badry told the Ghazl El-Mahalla game post press conference.
The Cairo giants will take part in the coming African Champions League, Egyptian Premier league and the African Super Cup seasons.
"The players' leave will give the young players a chance to play, since we still have three competitions," he added.
The African Champions football director Sayed Abdel-Hafiz expressed happiness with his young players' gain as well as the re-start of the premier league after a long suspension.
"We are happy about winning, not the performance, because the long league suspension affected the players," Abdel-Hafiz said.
Amid a financial crisis among almost all Egyptian clubs, the new domestic Premier League season kicked off Saturday after a one-year suspension following the Port Said stadium disaster that left more than 70 Ahly fans dead and hundreds injured.
"I am sure the players will do their best to improve during the coming games," said the coach.
Ahly, winners of the 2011 Premier League, opened the new campaign with an easy 1-0 victory over Ghazl El-Mahalla as the competition finally kicked off after months of wrangling over security concerns.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 