Manchester United's Van Persie still angry at Nani's red card against Real Madrid
Manchester United's striker still feels bitter after his side's elimination from the Champions League's round 16 by spanish giants Real Madrid
Two weeks after their elimination from the Champions League's round 16 by Real Madrid, Manchester United's striker Robin Van Persie still unhappy about his side's exit.
Manchester United were knocked out from the competition's round 16 following to a 2-1 loss to Spanish giants Real Madrid at Old Trafford.
The game witnessed a controversial red card to Manchester United's midfielder Nani, which came when The Red Devils were leading 1-0, but they collapsed following Nani's red card and Real Madrid claimed victory.
The Dutch striker is still convinced that Nani's red card was completely false.
"That red card was hugely unjustified," Van Persie is quoted as saying by Sky Sports on Thursday.
"It was not even a yellow card or a free-kick. Nani couldn't do anything about it, he hardly touched Arbeloa.
"For an hour everything was looking good, the tactics seems to be right. We really had the feeling that we were going to make the second goal and then it became very difficult for Real Madrid. But then the referee pulled the red card," he added.
Van Persie criticised UEFA following their defense of the referee and his decision.  
"The worst thing is that the UEFA supports him. That's cowardly, because I really don't understand it," he said.
"Why don't they say honestly: 'He hasn't seen it?'
"I didn't understand beforehand that this man would be the referee. Such an unknown referee who hasn't had any big games for months
"The guys from Madrid said afterwards that it was not a red card. It's too bad, because bigger matches than Manchester United-Real Madrid won't come.
"So now it's all about the title in the Premier League." he concluded.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 