Samuel Eto'o claims Cameroon FA 'is trying to kill him'
Cameroon icon says that his country's football federation are willing to kill him after accusing them of corruption
Cameroon skipper Samuel Eto’o blasts his national Football Federation (FECAFOOT) officials for the failure of football in his country claiming they are trying to kill him for exposing facts.
“You don’t know how I am living after denouncing them. I received death threats, they are trying to assasinate me," the Anzhi Makhachkala told internet users on a live chat conducted by Cameroonian magazine Je Wanda.
"I keep personal guards when I’m with the national team. I have a guard in front of the door; I bring my clothes with me from Puma and watch my food when I am eating at the restaurant. You can ask my colleagues.”
“We are talking about a lot of money and many people are involved and therefore it is important to silence me whatever it takes,” he added.
Eto’o has been a fierce critic of the FECAFOOT over the past few years blaming them for the debacle of the Indomitable Lions and the local football.
“Some gentlemen just want to fill their pockets with money. They want to make money, travel in first class, and buy beautiful cars and houses using our efforts. And when I denounced them they tried to kill me,” Eto’o  claimed.
The four-time African player of the year has been banned for eight month in January 2012 for leading a players’ strike over unpaid bonuses in November 2011.
The controversial Cameroon icon was also accused by former coach Denis Lavagne of surpassing his limits as a player saying that “something went wrong since he took over the captaincy as the team dropped from the 20th to the 70th place in the FIFA ranking."
“It’s easier to blame Eto’o for their failure but you people should know better and should act. These people should go after 13 years of failure. In Europe when people fail they quit. The crises and malfunction became systematic since their arrival and we must remove them to start the reconstruction,” Eto'o added.
Eto’o also thinks that a priority should be given to the domestic competitions in order to help new players expose their talent and give a larger base for the national team.
Concerning his future with Cameroon, Eto said “I am happy to be back for the national team because I love this country and this team but I don’t know how it will be later and under this administration.”
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 