VIDEO: Gomaa strike gives Ahly victory over Wadi Degla
A second-half goal earns Ahly their second successive Egyptian Premier League win following a 1-0 victory over Wadi Degla
Veteran defender Wael Gomaa scored a rare goal to give Ahly an easy 1-0 win over Wadi Degla in their second Egyptian Premier League game on Sunday.
The 37-year-old blasted home an unstoppable shot from inside the area shortly after the restart to make up for a host of wasted opportunities in the first half.
Wadi Degla finished with ten men after full-back Mohamed El-Hossary was sent off in stoppage time for a second bookable offense.
Ahly, who won the last league edition in 2011 and were leading the table when it was cancelled last year in the wake of the Port Said disaster, garnered maximum six points from two games after beating Ghazl El-Mahalla 1-0 in the league opener.
They top Group A, ahead of second-placed Haras El-Hodoud on goal difference.
In a new two-group format, the winners of the two groups will advance to play a mini-league with only home fixtures to determine the champion. The competition is being played behind closed doors at military-owned stadiums due to security concerns.
Ahly made light of the absence of the likes of Mohamed Abou-Treika, Mohamed Nagy ‘Gedo’ and Ahmed Fathi, who all left the club on loan deals in January, to brush aside their modest opponents.
They were guilty of spurning several clear-cut chances though, with striker Emad Meteb and forward El-Sayed Hamdi once again failing to live up to expectations.
Hamdi headed over the bar with the goal at his mercy and Meteb fired a low shot wide from inside the area as Ahly laid siege to Degla’s area.
Gomaa atoned for the misses when he broke the deadlock in the 48th minute.
A poor defensive clearance fell into his path in the area to thump a powerful volley that left the keeper with no chance.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
Ahly 1-0 Wadi Degla
 