Low-ranking police personnel stage protests across Egypt
Protests by low-ranking police personnel take place across Egypt to demand better pay and conditions and reform of the interior ministry
Hundreds of low-ranking police personnel have staged protests at security departments in ten governorates across Egypt.
The General Coalition of Police Personnel and Conscripts said the protests on Tuesday were designed to achieve a number of demands, including reforms at the interior ministry, wage increases, a 'danger pay' allowance, the arming of low-ranking personnel, and a law to develop the police apparatus.
According to Al-Ahram Arabic website, a security official has said the interior ministry "understands" the demands and has asked local security directors to communicate with the protesters.
The ministry limits the number of weapons used by low-ranking personnel to "ensure their safety" and reduce the number of deaths during clashes, the source added.
The protesters are also demanding the right to be treated at interior ministry hospitals.
Unlike high-ranking officers and senior officials at the ministry, low-ranking personnel do not have the right to free medical treatment at the ministry's hospitals. Instead, they have to depend on Egypt's public health system.
In addition, the protesters are calling for the rejection of a proposed new protest law.
In Alexandria, hundreds of low-ranking personnel went on strike and staged a protest in front of the city's security directorate.
In Assiut, Upper Egypt, protesters also demanded the removal of senior figures in the interior ministry.
Assiut security director General Abo El-Qassem Abo Deif met with protesters to discuss their demands.
Protesters began a sit-in inside Beni Suef police station and called for the dismissal of Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim. Local security director Ahmed Shaarawi met the protesters to discuss their demands.
In Menoufiya protesters blocked the entrances to Al-Bagur and Qoweisna police stations.
Similar protests are taking place in other governorates, including Qalubiya, Sharqiya, Ismailia, Aswan and Northern Sinai.
Low-ranking police personnel protested at Kafr El-Sheikh security directorate on Sunday.
 