More tourist attractions open at Salaheddin Citadel
Police and Carriage museums at Egypt's historic Salaheddin Citadel are to open in two weeks after restoration
New Police and Carriage museums are set to open at Cairo's Salaheddin Citadel in two weeks.The opening of the museums is part of the antiquities ministry's plan to restore and open new archaeological sites and museums.
Adel Abdel-Satar, head of the museum department, said that both museums were closed for more than a year for restoration. Walls were consolidated; cracks that once spread all over its walls were filled and restored, while floors and tiles were cleaned and deteriorated tiles were replaced with new ones made of similar materials. New ventilation and lighting system were installed as well as a new security system connected to monitoring cameras and TV circuits.
The Police Museum is located to the northwest of the Gran Mohamed Ali Mosque. It was first open to visitors in 1986 and displayed a large collection of artefacts that relate the history of the Egyptian police since the old ages up to present day.
The museum consists of six halls exhibiting different collection of police weapons from the ancient Egyptian period to present, extending to Egypt's Islamic era. Well known social crimes are also shown. Among such crimes on display is one of the two Alexandrian sisters Raya and Sekina who used to lure women into their apartment to rob, kill and bury them in the basement of their home. One hall is devoted to the police and Ismailia citizens' different struggles against the British colonization. Another hall displays different logos and costumes of the police since the monarchy until the 1952 Revolution.
A collection of counterfeiting devices is also on display at the museum, along with the oldest extinguisher cars used by Egyptians in the 18th and 19th century.
The Carriage Museum is very small and was once for British Officers during the colonial period. The museum includes one large hall displaying eight royal carriages that were used in different official events. A collection of costumes of the team of workers who used to be in charge of these carriages is also on exhibition.
Among the most important royal carriages on display is the one used by Khedive Ismail to welcome French Empress Eugenie during her visit to Egypt for the official opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.
The carriage used during the official opening of the first ever Egyptian Parliament in 1924 is also exhibited.
 