At Cairo University, Islamists protest 'to end violence'
Thousands answered call of Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya to protest political violence in the country
Islamist group Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya and its political wing, the Construction and Development Party, called for the million-man march.
The Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s largest Islamist movement, declared that it would take part in the demonstration with a "symbolic presence."
However, a number of other Islamist parties and groups – including the Salafist Nour Party, the Salafist Watan Party and the moderate-Islamist Wasat Party – voiced reluctance to take part in Friday's planned rally, fearing “further eruptions of [political] violence.”
Flags of Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya fluttered in the square outside the gates of the university, as Islamist leaders took to the stage to address the chanting crowds.
“Soon those ruling and the opposition will be from the Islamist current. This is Egypt’s nature,” said Ahmed Aref, spokesperson for the Muslim Brotherhood.
Assem Abdel Maged, a leading member of Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya, told the crowds that it is important to have diversity in the government.
“No one should monopolise the presidency or parliament,” he said. “I urge other groups to open their electoral lists for anyone capable."
Independent former MP Mohamed El-Omda, who has close ties to the Brotherhood, also spoke, saying that the Egyptian people would not challenge the legitimacy of President Morsi.
“Some people may want to tell the outside world that the people are against legitimacy,” he said. “But the Egyptian people won’t turn against a presidency they elected and a Shura Council they voted for.”
Ahmed Hassan, a protester from Beni Suef, told Ahram Online that he is against those who throw Molotov cocktails at the presidential palace and who threaten the country's stability.
"We want to go on with our lives. Enough violence," he said.
Pro-Brotherhood preacher Safwat Hegazy said the demonstration has one main purpose, to say no to violence, stressing that the numbers are low because this is a "symbolic" protest.
"If wanted to, we would fill this square to the brim; this is only a sample," Hegazy shouted.
He also stressed the lack of a divide between the different Islamist factions.
"There are no differences between us, whether Muslim Brotherhood, Salafists, Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya or others," he said.
Hegazy chanted with the crowd saying: "You who throw Molotovs, Egyptians know no fear."
 