Ahly coach refuses to blame underperforming players despite another defeat
The depleted Red Devils make their worst Egyptian Premier League start since 2003
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry stood by his underperforming players despite an embarrassing 3-0 defeat by Haras El-Hodoud on Thursday that cast doubts over the team’s ability to win an eighth consecutive Egyptian Premier League title.
The toothless Ahly, who were also vulnerable at the back, were exposed by a clinical El-Hodoud side who claimed a deserved victory, thanks to a brace from Egyptian international striker Ahmed Hassan Mekki.
It was Ahly’s second defeat in five league games, marking their worst start to the competition since 2003.
“Ahly’s players did their best, but they were just unlucky,” El-Badry said after the game, turning a blind eye towards some obvious frailties that helped El-Hodoud outclass their depleted opponents.
“The players have an excuse: they are exhausted because of the packed league fixtures.”
Ahly, who also lost to another Alexandria-based club in Smouha, are reeling following the departure of three influential players in the January transfer window.
Right-back Ahmed Fathi and forward Mohamed Nagy ‘Gedo’ joined English second-division side Hull City while veteran playmaker Mohamed Abou-Treika moved to Emirati club Bani Yas.
The three players will not return to Ahly before the end of the season, leaving the Cairo giants with no option but to cope without them. However, they showed no signs they can afford their loss.
Attacking duo Ahmed Abdel-Zaher and Emad Meteb failed to trouble El-Hodoud’s defence while Abdallah El-Saied and Mohamed Barakat, who were assigned the playmaking duties, hardly fed them.
Ahly are also affected by the absence of some key players through injury, including central midfielder Hossam Ghaly, left-back Sayed Moawad and winger Walid Soliman.
By contrast, Ahly’s traditional foes Zamalek, who have not won the league since 2004, garnered maximum 15 points from five matches in Group B, appearing more lively and efficient than their cross-town rivals.
Ahly, who are level on nine points with El-Hodoud and ENPPI, are still firm favourites to occupy one of the first two spots in Group A and reach the decisive round, where a mini-league will be held with only home fixtures to determine the league winner.
“I will try to solve all the team’s problems during the coming period to prepare well for the upcoming game against ENPPI on 10 March,” El-Badry added.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 