Culture Events: Picks for the weekend
This weekend is full of cultural events with a political twist. Ahram Online's culture team picks out the best music, theatre, films and visual arts Thursday through Sunday (7-10 March)
'The Secret Capital' film screening in Tahrir Lounge at 6pm
Mukhtar Shehata explores the events of the 25 January revolution, not from the perspective of Tahrir Square, but from the perspective of the Egyptian countryside in his home village in the north. The film is in Arabic with English subtitles.
Goethe Institute, 5 Al-Bostan Street, off Talaat Harb Street, Downtown, Cairo
'Inhabiting Spaces' performance and exhibition in Faculty of Fine Arts in Alexandria at 6pm
The project is a collaboration between theatre director Hatem Hassan from Centre Rézodansein Alexandria and curator Inga Lace from the Latvian Centre for Contemporary Art. It explores the relationship between the movement of the human body and architecture, using visual arts as the connection path between both disciplines, as well as means of documenting the process.
Abdel-Salam Areaf Street, Abu Qir, Alexandria
'Man of Marble' film screening in Darb 1718 at 7pm
This 1977 production by Andrzej Wajda is about a young female filmmaker in Krakao, Poland who comes across censored footage of a 1950s film about bricklayer, Birkut, who was briefly a proletariat hero and tries to finish the film in spite of the obstacles in her way. The screening is part of a larger project 'Recording Against Regimes' which features several film screenings, an exhibition and a symposium. Read more
 
here
. 
Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Cairo
Alwan Band concert in Beit El-Raseef at 8pm
The three-person acoustic band Alwan plays on themes of love, freedom and guarantees to get the audience smiling. Watch this video on the opening of Beit El-Raseef
 
here
.
Street 151, off Street 9, next to Midan El-Horreya, after Al-Ezaby Pharmacy and in front of National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Maadi, Cairo.
 
Friday 8 March
Mashrou3 El-Mareekh - Open mic event in Darb 1718 at 6pm
Darb 1817 cultural centre will host Mashrou3 El-Mareekh - an open platform for artistic expression this Friday. Founded by young artist and culture advocate Mariam El-Quessny, Mashrou3 El-Mareekh ('The Mars Project') tours Egyptian cities, promoting cultural development and expression by providing a platform for a wide range of artistic performances, including music, poetry and dance recitals. Read more on the project
 
here
.
Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Old Cairo
'The Living Newspaper' performance in Artellewa Art Space at 6pm
A 15-minute theatre and puppetry performance which will be repeated on a bi-weekly basis, responding to current events and the media in a spontaneous and immediate way. The project as a whole will provide a space to interpret the news in a creative and meaningful way by involving activist groups and socially engaged organisations to bridge the gap between art and action. The project is curated by Nini Ayach.
Studio El-Khalat, 13 Mohammed Ali El-Esseary Street, Ard El-Lewa, Cairo
'The Noise of Cairo' film screening in Darb 1718 at 7pm
The 2012 documentary film includes a series of interviews with key Egyptian artists discussing the role of arts in the Egyptian revolution, with a special focus on how the independent art scene has developed since the 2011 events unfolded. The film is by Heiko Lange and includes interviews with Karima Masour, Khaled Hafez, Sondos Shabayek, Ramy Essam and Osama Abdel-Moneim, among others. The screening is part of a larger project 'Recording Against Regimes' which features several film screenings, an exhibition and a symposium. Read more
 
here
. 
Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Old Cairo
'Silence of Tunes' exhibition by Hend El-Falafly in Safarkhan Art Gallery
In “Silence of Tunes,” emerging artist Hend El-Falafly explores the female body in pencils, expressing the changing dynamics of female identity in Egypt and the Middle East. Exhibition runs until 20 March.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Saturday 9 March
'
Hala Louein'
film screening in Beit El-Raseef at 7pm
The 2011 Lebanese film by Nadine Labaki '
Hala Louein'
('Where do we go from here?') tells the story of a small village in Lebanon, at some point during the civil war, where Muslims and Christians used to live side by side until they started hearing of the events in the rest of the country. The women of the village try to ease the religious tensions in the most creative ways. For Ahram Online's review of the film, click
 
here
.
Street 151, off Street 9, next to Midan El-Horreya, after El-Ezaby Pharmacy and in front of National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Maadi, Cairo.
El-Ghouri Tanoura Group in Wekalet El-Ghouri at 7.30pm
Expect traditional dance, vibrant music and colourful performances by El-Ghouri Dance Group this Saturday. They play every Saturday, Monday and Wednesday.
3 Mohamed Abdou Street, behind Al-Azhar Mosque, Cairo
Omar Khairat concert in El-Sawy Culturewheel at 8pm
Omar Khairat is a renowned Egyptian composer, pianist, whose original compositions – which bridge contemporary Arab music and western tunes – have earned him a large following in Egypt and the region. Khairat performs his music around the region with his Omar Khairat Group. He has composed music for several movies, recorded a number of CDs and won several local and international prizes.
26 July Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Darwasha Band concert in Makan Centre at 9pm
The progressive rock project Darwasha mixes rock, metal and oriental sounds, creating a sound that is uniquely theirs.
1 Saad Zaghloul Street, in front of Saad Zaghloul Tomb, Mounira, Cairo
Sunday 10 March
Like Jelly Show in Makan Centre at 9pm
Like Jelly musicians use mellow acoustic tunes, singing and story-telling to give commentary on social and political issues through humour and positivity.
1 Saad Zaghloul Street, in front of Saad Zaghloul Tomb, Mounira, Cairo
Sixth Floor: Collective Exhibition at Viennoise Hotel
Curated by Yara Mekawi, this collective exhibition features diverse work, including graffiti, video art, photography, installation and more by a group of emerging artists. Challenged by Mekawi to answer the question “What are the most memorable moments recalled in the few recent years?” this bunch of contemporary artists set out to unleash their recent memories in the form of art. Of the artists participating in this exhibition are; Mina Nasr (drawing on the wall), the Mona Lisa Brigades (graffiti), Basem Samir (graphic photography), among others. Exhibition runs until 14 March
11 Mahmoud Bassiouny, Downtown Cairo
CMYK: Mutaz Elemam in Tache Art Gallery
Following a five-day pop-up exhibition at Zamalek’s Left Bank during the last week of February, paintings by Sudanese artist Mutaz Elemam are showcased at Tache Art gallery in Designopolis. This series of paintings is overflowing with rich and vibrant color, a key characteristic of Elemam’s work. “CMYK” is curated by Maie Yanni in collaboration with Tache Art. Exhibition runs until 17 March
S-139 Designopolis
 
km 38 of the Alexandria Desert Road,
S
heikh Zayed City, Cairo
Bronze Sculptures: Mostafa Abdel Moity in Zamalek Art Gallery
Mostafa Abdel Moity (1938) is known for his inventive compositions of geometric shapes. His artwork, at times colourful paintings and at others monochromatic pencil drawings, create maps that look like blueprints of the universe. The artist believes that art is the only salvation for mankind; without art humans would merely live, rather than truly exist.
Abdel Moity is a multi-talented artist; in this exhibition at the Zamalek Art Gallery he exhibits bronze sculptures inspired by Pharaonic art and folk arts. The exhibition opened on 17 February and runs until 12 March.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Follow Arts and Culture updates on Twitter: 
@AhramOnlineArts
 and on our Facebook page: 
Ahram Online: Arts and Culture
 