After aide's dismissal, Nour Party spokesman slams Egypt presidency
Following high-profile dismissal of Nour-affiliated presidential advisor, spokesman for Egypt's leading Salafist party accuses President Morsi of employing double standards
Salafist Nour Party spokesman Nader Bakkar on Monday criticised the Egyptian presidency on Twitter following a press conference held by his party to respond to the recent dismissal of Nour-affiliated presidential aide Khaled Alam El-Din.
On Sunday, President Mohamed Morsi dismissed El-Din, his assistant for environmental affairs, without providing an official reason. Media leaks, however, claimed El-Din was sacked due to suspicions that he had been "using his position for personal gain."
"If the presidency dismisses people based on suspicions and not investigations, then it might as well have dismissed [presidential spokesman] Yasser Ali, who has actually been summoned by prosecutors," Bakkar stated.
His first tweet was followed by a series of others slamming Muslim Brotherhood figures who have faced accusations of wrongdoing.
"If the presidency dismisses people based on suspicions and not investigations, it might as well have dismissed the aviation minister on suspicion that he hired the president's son due to nepotism," Bakkar stated.
"If the presidency dismisses people based on suspicions, then the president himself should resign for suspicions that officials under his authority were involved in the intentional killing of protesters," the Nour Party spokesman stated.
"If the presidency dismisses people based on suspicions, then it should explain the position of [leading Brotherhood member] Khairat El-Shater, who spoke of 'monitored actions' of parties inside and outside the country without naming them," Bakkar said.
"If the presidency dismisses people based on suspicions, then it should explain to people [leading Brotherhood member] Essam El-Erian's statements about 'taping phone calls'," he added.
Bakkar's comments referenced recent statements by El-Shater – seen as the mastermind behind the Brotherhood but who does not hold an official government post – and El-Erian – who also does not hold a government post – in which the two men talked about "monitoring phone calls" made by political groups.
Bakkar, whose party was recently in close alliance with the Brotherhood and President Morsi, also referenced a recent incident in which the president's son, Omar Morsi, was accused of obtaining a government job through nepotism.
Bakkar's attack came in the wake of a Nour Party press conference at which the presidency was heavily criticised for sacking El-Din and "tarnishing" the latter's reputation without proof.
At the press conference, El-Din hinted that his dismissal had been "political" in nature, due to his recent critiques of the presidency and the government.
The Salafist Nour Party has recently come into conflict with President Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood group from which he hails. The Nour Party has repeatedly accused the Brotherhood of attempting to "dominate" Egypt's political stage and "monopolise" state institutions.
The Salafist party even went so far as to sponsor an initiative with the National salvation Front, Egypt's main opposition bloc, demanding a cabinet reshuffle and the replacement of a Morsi-appointed prosecutor-general.  
 