VIDEO: Real Madrid draw 1-1 with Barcelona in thrilling Cup semi first leg
Barcelona's 1-1 draw with arch-rivals Real Madrid at the Bernabeu makes them favourites to reach the King's Cup final
 
Cesc Fabregas struck what may prove a priceless away goal as holders Barcelona drew 1-1 at depleted arch-rivals Real Madrid in an entertaining and closely fought King's Cup semi-final first leg on Wednesday.
Lionel Messi sent Fabregas clear five minutes after halftime at an electric Bernabeu stadium enjoying the second "Clasico" of the season and the Spain midfielder finished with ease past Real goalkeeper Diego Lopez.
Barca missed several clear chances to extend their lead before Real centre back Raphael Varane crowned a fine performance by leaping to head home an equaliser from a Mesut Ozil centre seven minutes from time.
Despite having a slight advantage for the second leg at the Nou Camp at the end of next month, Barca may live to regret not scoring more against a Real team missing regular keeper and captain Iker Casillas and Pepe through injury and the suspended Sergio Ramos.
"These games are always very tough," Fabregas said in an interview with Spanish television broadcaster Canal Plus.
"Considering how the march went the result could have been more favourable from our point of view," added the former Arsenal captain.
"But we will be at home for the return leg in front of our own fans. We are in a good rhythm and having a spectacular season."
In a game pitting a host of Spain team mates against each other and billed as the latest showdown between Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, both sides created moments of danger in an ultimately goalless first half.
Barca went closest to scoring when Xavi curled a 21st-minute free kick against the crossbar and then had a shot brilliantly cleared off the line by Varane three minutes later.
Ronaldo, captaining the side in his 600th official game, had forced a good save from Barca keeper Jose Manuel Pinto with a free kick in the second minute and Karim Benzema volleyed narrowly wide just before the half hour.
After Fabregas put Barca ahead, Ronaldo nodded wide with the goal at his mercy before the Portuguese was denied by a superb last-ditch tackle from Gerard Pique.
Fabregas fired narrowly over the bar from a Daniel Alves cross shortly after before sending Pedro through on goal but his Spain team mate clipped his shot wide with only Lopez to beat.
Varane's leveller was no more than Real deserved and Lopez, making his debut after joining from Sevilla as cover for Casillas, thrilled the home fans when he palmed away a Jordi Alba strike late on.
The biggest surprise of the night was that neither Messi or Ronaldo were on the scoresheet.
Messi is one goal short of Alfredo Di Stefano's record for "Clasico" matches of 18, while Ronaldo's record run of scoring in six straight matches between Real and Barca came to an end.
The winners of the tie will play Atletico Madrid or Sevilla, who meet on Thursday at Atletico's Calderon stadium, in May's final.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at 
@AO Sports
 and on Facebook at 
AhramOnlineSports
)
Real Madrid 1-1 Barcelona
 