Culture events: Picks for the weekend
Ahram Online takes a look at the best performances and shows in Cairo and Alexandria over this weekend (7-10 February)
'Azazeel' theatre performance at Hanager Arts Center at 6pm
A theatrical adaptation of the widely read Youssef Zidane novel 'Azazeel' following a Coptic monk's journey from Upper Egypt to Syria searching for spiritual enlightenment.
Cairo Opera House Grounds, Zamalek, Cairo
'Shuffle' theatre performance at AUC New Cairo at 6pm
Three students put together three plays and a musical: The Zoo Story, Family 2.0, Death Knocks & Aida, the musical.
American University in Cairo, New Cairo
'Il Primo Uomo' screening at Italian Cultural Institute at 7pm
This 2011 production follows the memories of a young boy longing to rid Algeria of racism and religious discrimination in the 1950s.
3 El Sheikh El-Marsafy Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Massar Egbari concert at Bibliotheca Alexandrina at 8pm
The band, which has played together for years in Alexandria and Cairo, boasts a unique sound, fusing rock and funk with oriental beats and melodies. Their lyrics tackle social issues, while their concerts – especially in Alexandria – often prompt audiences to chant anti-establishment slogans. Hold on to your tickets for the concert, as you can later exchange it for a discount on the band's first album. Read more
here
.
Great Hall, Bibliotheca Alexandrina, Alexandria
Friday 8 February
Afri-Cairo Day at El-Sawy Culturewheel at 3pm
A day of live music with an African twist comes back to El-Sawy featuring performances by the Percussion Show, Ashara Gharby, Nigerian band Sunshine, Sudanese singer Asia Madani and Egyptian, Eritrean and Sudanese cooperation Senet. Ethiopian and Sudanese food will be available along with an African handicrafts fair by various artisans.
River Hall, 26 July Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Mashrou3 El-Mareekh - Open Mic Event at Darb 1718 at 7pm
Darb 1817 cultural centre will host Mashrou3 El-Mareekh - an open platform for artistic expression – with this Friday's theme dubbed 'Sadness' to reflect the recent events. Founded by young artist and culture advocate Mariam El-Quessny, Mashrou3 El-Mareekh (The Mars Project) tours Egyptian cities, promoting cultural development and expression by providing a platform for a wide range of artistic performances, including music, poetry and dance recitals. Read more
here
.
Qasr El-Shamee Street, El-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Old Cairo
'Alias Drinks: Fruit Paradise – Moustache of an Old Man' exhibition by Ramy Dozy at Mashrabia Gallery
The artist’s older works are based on visual aesthetics from Egypt's advertising world, while his newer works resemble childlike paintings and drawings that are both playful and inspire thoughts and questions.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
Saturday 9 February
Massar Egbari concert at El-Sawy Culturewheel at 8pm
The band, which has played together for years in Alexandria and Cairo, boasts a unique sound, fusing rock and funk with oriental beats and melodies. Their lyrics tackle social issues, while their concerts – especially in Alexandria – often prompt audiences to chant anti-establishment slogans. Read more
here
.
River Hall, 26 July Street, Zamalek, Cairo
El-Watan Workshop Choir in El-Sawy Culturewheel at 8pm
The choir is made up of several people and experiments with coming up with songs that and socially, politically engaged and positive.
Wisdom Hall, 26 July Street, Zamalek, Cairo
'Small Works' by Mohamed Abla at Art Corner Gallery
Internationally acclaimed artist Mohamed Abla, whose work is often politically charged and bears rebellious undertones, exhibits this January at the Art Corner Gallery in Zamalek. Last year, his most notable exhibitions were 'The Road to Tahrir' at the El-Bab Gallery, in which he displayed works produced from 2004 up until the revolution that, in a way, prophesised the uprising of 25 January 2011, and a Facebook exhibition entitled 'Wolves'
,
which condemned the attacks of army soldiers on protestors. In 'Small Works'
,
 Abla exhibits a mix of portraits and landscapes, as always with a potent Egyptian identity.
12 Sayid El-Bakry Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Sunday 10 February
'Born on the 25th January' screening at Bibliotheca Alexandrina at 7pm
Part of the documentary film forum in the Auditorium hall of the library, Ahmed Rashwan presents his 80 minute documentary on the Egyptian revolution.
Auditorium Hall, Bibliotheca Alexandrina, Alexandria
'No Exit' performance at French Institute in Cairo at 7pm
Omar El-Moutaz Bellah directs this production of 'No Exit' based on the original play by Jean-Paul Sartre from 1944, and produced by the Teatro Independent Theatre Company.
1 Madrasset El-Huquq El-Frenseya, off of Qasr El-Aini Street, Mounira, Cairo
Russian Pianist Andrei Gavrilov at Manasterly Palace at 8pm
Andrei Gavrilov, the first prize winner at the International Tchaikovsky Competition in 1974 is acclaimed by many reviewers as one of the world's great concert pianists. Read more
here
.
Manasterly Palace, Rhoda Island, next to the Nilometre, Cairo
'Mashrou3 Hagar: Art Empowers!' exhibition at Darb 1718
Artwork that tackles women’s rights and struggles will be featured in an exhibition at Darb 1718. 'Mashrou3 Hagar: Art Empowers!' is an arts project sponsored by the European Union and the Darb 1718 Contemporary Art & Culture Centre, designed to offer a series of art workshops and information sessions with NGOs in the summer of 2012, revolving around female issues in Egypt, culminating in an itinerant exhibition that tours the country. The exhibition tour kicked off at the Alexandria Atelier in November, followed by a show at the Sohag Culture Palace in December. This month, the exhibition makes its final stop at Cairo’s Darb 1718.
Qasr El-Shamee Street, El-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Old Cairo
Follow Arts and Culture updates on Twitter: 
@AhramOnlineArts
 and on our Facebook page: 
Ahram Online: Arts and Culture
 