Impunity remains a problem in Egypt: HRW
Tamara Al-Rifai of Human Rights Watch says new Arab leaders mustn't repeat the mistakes of their authoritarian predecessors
“We are yet to see an end to impunity in the 'Arab Spring' states – of course, this includes Egypt,” says Tamara Al-Rifai, a spokesperson for Human Rights Watch.
Al-Rifai spoke to Al-Ahram Online after HRW launched its report for 2012, which dedicated a special section to the countries of the Arab Spring.
The report said elections are only the first step on the path to overcoming tyranny and establishing a full democracy.
“Subsequent steps should include establishing liberties, and writing laws and constitutions that are compatible with acknowledged human rights norms,” Al-Rifai says.
Al-Rifai says there are still disturbing signs that impunity has yet to disappear in the Arab Spring countries. Impunity, she argues, runs counter to calls for societal reconciliation, and its elimination is a
sine qua non
for ending tyranny.
The road of transitional justice is still to be trodden by the Arab Spring countries, Al-Rifai adds. Prosecuting those responsible for violations is step one in pursuing transitional justice, she says, but there are other elements to transitional justice.
"These include the state’s recognition of the harm that was done to people and acting to remedy this harm and compensating the victims. This is the way to heal the wounds of the past and build confidence.
"Indeed this is the way it has worked in many countries going through the transition from tyranny to democracy. South Africa being the most obvious example,” Al-Rifai argues.
The pursuit of transitional justice is the responsibility of new leaders. "They should look their people in the eye and say there have been mistakes, the new era will be free of those mistakes and we will not commit the same injustices that were done to us.”
This process is necessary for wounds to heal, Al-Rifai says. However, “we should remember this is no overnight process. It takes a generation or two to be fully and adequately conducted.
“Of course, we are talking about diverse countries in the context of the Arab Spring and we need to realise that the process will be shaped by the choices and preferences of the countries concerned." 
There are certain signs that can signal a country is moving from tyranny to democracy, or from one type of tyranny to the other, she says.
Marginalising the rights of minorities is, for Al-Rifai, a worrying sing because these cannot be compromised in a truly democratic setting. In the case of Egypt, she suggests, there are question marks about the new government's commitment to protecting the rights of women and Christians.
“Clearly we have seen some very disturbing incidents and we are monitoring the situation,” she says.
The continued trials of civilians in military courts are a cause for concern.
“This is one thing that should have been stopped for sure,” she says. “If a country continues to refer civilians to military courts it is more likely that it is moving from tyranny to tyranny rather than from tyranny to democracy.”
The ambiguous language of some articles in the controversial new constitution, Al-Rifai says, is yet another source of concern because they could be used to curtail rather than promote freedom.
Above all, Al-Rifai is concerned about the continued state of impunity in Egypt. Those who ordered the attack on demonstrators in Tahrir Square on 2 February 2011, on Coptic demonstrators on 9 October 2012, and on protestors outside the presidential palace on 22 November 2013 are yet to be brought to justice.
“Egypt is also suffering from an acute state of polarisation,” concludes Al-Rifai. "Should this continue unchecked, it could have a very negative influence on the chances of building democracy."
 
 