Art Alert: Syrian documentary films to screen in Alexandria
On the occasion of Syria Global Day, DOX BOX 2013 will feature Syrian film documentaries, roundtable discussions and art exhibitions from 15 to 18 March in Egypt's second city
Several cultural institutions in Alexandria will join forces from 15 to 18 March to host DOX BOX 2013 for Syria Global Day, an event dedicated to showcasing the real lives of Syrians through handpicked films and YouTube videos. There will also be debates and roundtable discussions about the role of art in Syria's armed insurgency, in addition to live testimonies, experience-sharing and artistic evenings.
The event is being organised by El-Cabina (run by Gudran for Art and Development), Studio El-Madina (run by El-Madina for Performing and Digital Arts), Janaklees Studio, and Eskenderella for Arts and Culture.
"Alexandria and its artists are hosting this event to support Syrians in their revolution and humanitarian crisis, and to remind everyone that the people remain and humanity prevails, as well as to stress the role of arts and culture in supporting the struggle for freedom and human dignity," the event page reads.
Programme
Friday, 15 March at 6pm
Film screening of 'In the Morning I'm Scared, In the Evening I Sing' by Salma El-Deiry and Rola Lathkani; YouTube showing; and presentation and dialogue of the experience of Egyptian artists in Syrian Refugee camps in Turkey.
The event will also feature a photography exhibition of Syrian children by Hamdy Reda.
Studio El-Medina: 8 Talaat Harb Square, in front of the Egyptian Stock Exchange, El-Raml Station, Alexandria
Saturday, 16 March at 6pm
Film screening of
Milad Magid 
by Bassel Shehada, 'Four Questions over Tea' by Inas Mekdad, and 'Steadfast Night' by Fariq Talbeesa.
The night will also feature a YouTube screening and discussion with Ammar from the Syrian community in Alexandria.
Studio Janaklis: Sherket Masr El-Taameen Street, behind Altilier Alexandria, Azarita, Alexandria
Sunday, 17 March at 6pm
Film screening of 'Damascus, My First Kiss' by Lina El-Abd and a YouTube screening, along with a discussion with Syrian female activists and artists.
El-Cabina: 11 San Saba Street, behind Realto Cinema, El-Raml Station, Alexandria
Monday, 18 March at 6pm
Film screening of 'Four Questions over Tea
'
by Inas Mekdad
,
'In the Morning I'm Scared, In the Evening I Sing'
by Salma El-Deiry and Rola Lathkany, and YouTube screenings.
The event will also feature a photography exhibition of Syrian children in refugee camps by Hamdy Reda and a poetry recital, ending with an open discussion with the public.
Tootoo Cafe: Kom El-Dekka, behind the Water Reserve and Police Residencies, Alexandria
 