Zamalek ease to seventh consecutive win in Egyptian league
Formidable Zamalek claim an easy 2-1 victory over Talae El-Gaish to maintain their winning streak
Two goals from veteran midfielder Ahmed Hassan and youngster Mohamed Ibrahim helped Group B runaway leaders Zamalek ease to their seventh consecutive Egyptian Premier League win after beating Talae El-Gaish 2-1 on Tuesday.
The evergreen Hassan, the world's most capped player with 180 international caps, put Zamalek in front just after the quarter-hour mark with a neat finish.
Ibrahim, Zamalek's highly-rated 21-year-old forward, doubled the lead after the break in controversial fashion, his cross dropped by El-Gaish keeper apparently just over the line.
El-Gaish players protested the goal's legitimacy in vain but they managed to notch a stoppage-time consolation via a curling free-kick from midfielder Gomaa Mashour.
Zamalek, who made their best league start since 2003, are on top of their group in the competition's new format with maximum 21 points from seven games.
The success-starved side, who are bidding to win their first league title since 2004, are just two matches short of equalling a club record for the best league start.
Hassan, who is defying his age with some lively and energetic displays, opened the scoring after 16 minutes as Zamalek took early control.
He superbly controlled a defensive clearance following a left-wing cross and held off his challenger in the process before beating the keeper at the near post with a precise low shot from inside the area.
The 37-year-old could have doubled the lead three minutes later but his far-post free header narrowly missed the target.
Winger Hazem Emam, fielded as one of three attacking midfielders supporting lone striker Ahmed Gaafar, spurned another goal-scoring opportunity on 39 minutes following a brilliant solo effort.
Picking up the ball in the halfway line, he dribbled past three defenders with a catchy feint to break clear but his subsequent shot with his weak right foot went wide.
Zamalek eased off in the second period but still managed to ensure their victory with a bizarre goal in the 65th minute.
El-Gaish keeper El-Sayed fumbled a tame cross from Ibrahim and the ball fell on the grass as the referee signalled it was a goal. Television replays were inconclusive over whether the ball had crossed the goal-line.
The hosts narrowed the gap when a curling free-kick from Mashour sailed over the wall and past the despairing dive of Ahmed El-Shenawy, Zamalek's deputy keeper who was rarely tested after starting the game instead of rested custodian Abdel-Wahed El-Sayed.
However, it was too little, too late as Zamalek held on for another victory.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 