Relive: Manchester United 1-2 Real Madrid (European Champions League)
Real Madrid qualify for the European Champions League quarter-finals after beating Manchester United 2-1 at the Old Trafford for a 3-2 aggregate win
De Gea tips over another Ronaldo effort from a tight angle.
The in-form Lopez continues to pull off some outstanding saves, with his flailing arm denying a powerful header.
De Gea makes another save to deny Ronaldo.
The referee adds five minutes of stoppage time.
Kaka almost makes it 3-1!! His deflected right-foot shot strikes the post and ricochets off the back of De Gea, who collects it before it crosses the goal-line.
The final substitution for Man United, winger Antonio Valencia replaces right-back Rafael.
United now need a remarkable comeback if they are to go through. Real are on the verge of a famous victory at the Old Trafford.
At the other end, Ronaldo's low shot from the edge of the area is easily collected by David De Gea.
Lopez comes to Real's rescue again!! Blocking a left-foot chip from Van Persie as United lay siege to Real's area.
Real Madrid keeper Diego Lopez makes a superb save to block a header from Carrick following a neat cross from Giggs.
Welbeck is replaced with Ashley Young, who will partner Rooney upfront.
A Danny Welbeck shot is blocked by Ramos.
Real Madrid are dictating play. They are in complete control and seem the more likely side to score in the final 10 minutes.
Real Madrid make the most of their numerical advantage to overturn the deficit and leave United with an uphill climb.
Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney, who surprisingly started on the bench, replaces midfielder Thomas Cleverley.
Real Madrid make their final substitution. Combative defender Pepe replaces Mesut Ozil as Mourinho seeks to beef up his defence to maintain Real's advantage.
In those frenetic moments, Real Madrid come close to reaching the quarters. United now need to score two goals with 10 men to go through.
Higuain exchanges passes with Ozil and plays the ball across the six-yards box for Cristiano Ronaldo to tap in at the far post. He refuses to celebrate out of respect for the faithful of United, whom he left in 2009 to join Real Madrid.
Substitute Luka Modric draws Real Madrid level in superb fashion! He skips past his challenger and fires a fierce right-footed curler that goes in off the post. What a strike!
The impressive Ryan Giggs is applauded by United's enthusiastic supporters, thanks to his superb interceptions at the back.
In a rare United counter, Robin van Persie's long-range shot is saved by Real keeper Diego Lopez.
Modric sends a low cross from the right that goes begging. Real Madrid are piling on pressure upfront.
Real Madrid are unlucky!! A close-range header by Higuain is cleared by Rafael.
Real Madrid will be looking to make the most of their numerical advantage with 30 minutes remaining. Will United be able to withstand Real's relentless pressure?
Real Madrid make their second substitution, Luka Modric replaces Arbeloa. Real coach Mourinho throws caution to the wind.
Nani receives his marching orders after making a reckless, flying tackle on Alvaro Arbeloa, catching him in the chest.
A big blow for Manchester United, Nani is red-carded!!
Manchester United are now expected to sit back and try to defend their slender lead. They can still rely on the pace of Welbeck and Nani to hit Real Madrid on the break.
A cross from Gonzalo Higuain from the right goes begging.
Real Madrid now need to score to level the aggregate score. They still lack spark and imagination in the final third. 
Nani steals possession from Varane on the left hand side of the penalty area and sends a low cross that is turned by Ramos into his own net.
Real Madrid still need to score as a goalless draw will send United through. Losing Di Maria in the first half is a big blow, it remains to be seen whether Kaka will be able to fill the gap left by the Argentinean.
Real Madrid are forced to make an unscripted substitution, Kaka replaces the energetic Angel Di Maria, who picked up an injury.
Real Madrid move the ball around United's area, trying to find spaces in a steadfast backline.
Real Madrid right-back Alvaro Arbeloa receives a yellow card for a challenge on Evra.
Welbeck squanders an easy chance for United! Real Madrid keeper Diego Lopez makes a double save, first blocking a shot from Van Persie then thwarting Welbeck on the rebound.
Higuain runs onto a superb pass from Angel Di Maria but his shot from a tight angle is blocked by David De Gea.
Real Madrid begin to find their rhythm, they are exchanging attacks with the hosts.
Ronaldo has his first chance! He is found in the area by a long ball but his effort is blocked by Vidic.
Real Madrid's Sergio Ramos makes a great tackle to thwart a shot from the pacy Welbeck.
Real Madrid are still unable to unlock a tight United defence, which is greatly helped by Giggs and Cleverley, both of whom drift near the back four to close down spaces.
Manchester United waste a golden opportunity to take the lead!! A Nemanja Vidic header following a corner strikes the post. Man United appear much better now.
Manchester United left-back Patrice Evra is booked for a challenge on Angel Di Maria.
Real Madrid's in-form defender Raphael Varane makes a superb sliding tackle to clear the ball away following a darting run by Nani on the left.
The first quarter of an hour is evenly balanced, with both sides creating some decent chances.
Another chance for United!! Van Persie side-foots a neat Ryan Giggs cross at the far post but his effort deflects off Sergio Ramos and goes wide.
Coentrao makes a timely interception to head away a cross from Welbeck at the other end as Man United launch a counter attack.
Real Madrid create their first chance!! Angel Di Maria picks up a pass from Mesut Ozil on the edge of the area, skips past his marker but shoots with his weak right foot and his effort goes wide.
No threats yet after the first ten minutes, but Real Madrid have the better possession.
Manchester United forwards drift to the middle of the pitch to help stifle Real Madrid attacks.
Cristiano Ronaldo is whistled by the home crowd as he takes the free-kick, which strikes the wall. Man United fans will definitely try to distract him.
in Real Madrid's first foray forward, Coentrao is fouled by Ryan Giggs on the left.
Real Madrid are expected to attack from the outset in a bid to take the initiative, having conceded a goal at home in the first-leg's 1-1 draw.
Just 10 minutes remaining before kick-off, what do you expect for the intriguing clash?
Manchester United’s evergreen midfielder Ryan Giggs will make his 1,000 game in senior football.
21:00
Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho and Manchester United counterpart Alex Ferguson brace for a tough tie. Check their accomplishments in their prestigious careers.
20:50
Real Madrid’s starting line-up: Diego Lopez, Alvaro Arbeloa, Raphael Varane, Sergio Ramos, Fabio Coentrao, Xabi Alonso, Sami Khedira, Angel Di Maria, Mesut Ozil, Cristiano Ronaldo, Gonzalo Higuain.
20:45
Manchester United’s starting line-up: David de Gea, Rafael, Rio Ferdinand, Nemanja Vidic, Patrice Evra, Michael Carrick, Tom Cleverley, Ryan Giggs, Danny Welbeck, Nani, Robin van Persie.
20:45
Real Madrid are also buoyed by two successive wins over arch-rivals Barcelona in the league and the King’s Cup.
20:15
Manchester United are enjoying a great run of form and almost made sure they would win a record 20th English Premier League title. They are 15 points of holders Manchester City at the top of the table.
19:30
All eyes will be on Real Madrid's in-form forward Cristiano Ronaldo, who will return to the Old Trafford for the first time since leaving Manchester United in 2009.
18:30
Manchester United's probable line-up: 1-David de Gea; 2-Rafael, 5-Rio Ferdinand, 6-Jonny Evans, 3-Patrice Evra; 16-Michael Carrick, 23-Tom Cleverley; 10-Wayne Rooney, 26-Shinji Kagawa, 19-Danny Welbeck; 20-Robin van Persie.
18:30
Real Madrid's probable line-up: 41-Diego Lopez; 17-Alvaro Arbeloa, 3-Pepe, 4-Sergio Ramos, 5-Fabio Coentrao; 14-Xabi Alonso, 6-Sami Khedira; 22-Angel Di Maria, 10-Mesut Ozil, 7-Cristiano Ronaldo; 9-Karim Benzema.
18:00
Real Madrid and Manchester United met nine times in European competitions. Real won three, United won two and they drew four games.
Stay tuned for Ahram Online special live coverage of Manchester United and Real Madrid in the second leg of the Champions League round 16.
The tie between the two European giants is balanced on a knife's edge after last month's 1-1 draw in the first leg. As United holds the tiniest of advantages in the shape of an away goal, Tuesday's glamour match could be a tight affair.
Read the full preview
here
The match starts at 19:45 (GMT) - 9:45pm (CMT)
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
               
 