Classy first-half goals keep Juve top in Italy
Two classy first-half goals gave Juventus a 2-1 win at Chievo on Sunday, ensuring they kept their three-point lead at the top of Serie A, while Lazio and Inter Milan lost touch after losing to lowly opponents
Alessandro Matri volleyed home after 10 minutes and Switzerland midfielder Stephan Lichtsteiner finished a well-worked move three minutes before halftime for Juventus while new signing Nicolas Anelka stayed on the bench.
Third-placed Lazio came from two goals behind to peg back Genoa at 2-2, Stefano Mauri levelling with a penalty eight minutes from time, but it was all in vain when Marco Rigoni won the game in the fifth minute of stoppage time.
Innocent Emeghara, Alessio Sestu and Alessandro Rosina, from a penalty, shared Siena's goals in a 3-1 win over Inter, who replied through Antonio Cassano and had Cristian Chivu sent off in the 55th minute.
Defending champions Juventus restored their three-point lead after Napoli had briefly pulled level with a 2-0 win over Catania on Saturday. Juve have 52 points from 23 games while Lazio have 43 and Inter are fourth with 40.
Siena's win took them off the bottom of the table on goal difference from Palermo who lost 2-1 at home to Atalanta.
Both teams have 17 points, three adrift of Pescara who twice led but lost 3-2 at home to Bologna in a game of three penalties.
Juventus, who had won only once in their previous four league games and were knocked out of the Italian Cup by Lazio in midweek, went ahead when Arturo Vidal sent a diagonal chip into the path of Matri who volleyed into the far corner.
Right wing-back Lichtsteiner popped up on the left of the penalty area to provide an emphatic finish after Matri rolled the ball to Sebastian Giovinco who teed up the Swiss with a clever backheel.
Cyril Thereau pulled one back for the Flying Donkeys early in the second half but Juventus, with coach Antonio Conte barred from the touchline for his furious outburst over the refereeing against Genoa last week, held out comfortably.
 (For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
 