Lively Zamalek seek to maintain fine start in Egyptian league
The Cairo side will be eyeing a third consecutive victory in the Egyptian Premier League when they meet Dakhleya on Wednesday
Zamalek will be looking to avoid the dreadful defensive mistakes which almost cost them a win in an exciting game against Ittihad El-Shorta when they meet another police-owned club in Dakhleya on Wednesday.
The Cairo side snatched a late 3-2 win over El-Shorta to garner maximum six points from two games as they seek to end a lengthy league drought stretching back to 2004 when they won the last of their 11 titles.
However, their shaky defence was repeatedly exposed as El-Shorta launched a wave of dangerous counter attacks throughout the Group B game.
It remains to be seen whether Brazilian coach Jorvan Vieira will stick to the same formation he used against El-Shorta, which featured one holding midfielder, when Zamalek take on Dakhleya.
Nour El-Sayed was unable to close down spaces in midfield, leaving central defensive duo Mahmoud Fathallah and Salah Soliman vulnerable at the back.
But Zamalek still attacked with panache in two victories over Ittihad of Alexandria and El-Shorta, thanks in part to some impressive displays from 20-year-old playmaker Mohamed Ibrahim.
Ibrahim, who has become a regular member of Egypt’s senior team squad, created three out of five goals Zamalek had scored in the two games, and had also found the net against El-Shorta.
Dakhleya have also made a fine start, collecting four points from two matches after defeating Arab Contractors and drawing with El-Entag El-Harby.
Zamalek will miss left-back Mohamed Abdel-Shafy, who is suffering from an eye problem. Long-term absentees Eslam Awad and veteran midfielder Ahmed Hassan are also out.
In a new two-group league format, the winners of the two groups will advance to play a mini-league with only home fixtures to determine the champion. The competition is being played behind closed doors at military-owned stadiums due to security concerns.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 