Art Agenda: March exhibitions in Cairo
From visual art exhibitions to video art shows, Cairo offers a diverse assortment of arts and culture events this March. Ahram Online picks the highlights of this month's art agenda
There is a diverse collection of exhibitions available in Cairo in March. Among the highlights is a collective art exhibition entitled 'Sixth Floor', held at the charming Viennoise hotel in downtown, featuring a dynamic group of emerging artists showcasing graffiti, sound-art installations, video art and more, tackling the theme of memory.  
'Recording Against Regimes', an exhibition spotlighting revolutionary video art and film from Poland, Germany and Egypt is also showing this month at Darb 1718.
Interesting painting and multimedia exhibitions include 'CMYK' by Sudanese-born artist Mutaz Elemam at Tache Art Gallery, 'Passing Faces' by Kareem El-Qurity at The Art Lounge, and 'On my Forest Land', a series of photomontages and sound installations by Hala Abu Shady at Mashrabia Gallery.
Checkout the full list of recommended art exhibitions below. 
Bronze Sculptures: Mostafa Abdel-Moity at Zamalek Art Gallery
Bronze Sculpture by Mostafa Abdel Moity
Mostafa Abdel-Moity (1938) is known for his inventive compositions of geometric shapes, where his artwork, at times colourful paintings and at others monochromatic pencil drawings, create maps that appear as blueprints of the universe. The artist believes that art is the only salvation for mankind: without art humans would merely live, rather than truly exist. At this exhibition Abdel-Moity exhibits bronze sculptures inspired by Pharaonic art and folk art.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition opened on 17 February and runs until 12 March
Transient Chronicles: Mai Refky at 6 Contemporary Art Gallery
Painting by Mai Refky
This solo exhibition by emerging contemporary artist Mai Refky (1976) is a collection of autobiographical abstract paintings she has produced since 2008.
6 Salah El-Deen Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition runs until 12 March
Sixth Floor: Collective Exhibition at Viennoise Hotel
Graffiti by MonaLiza Bridges
Curated by Yara Mekawi, this collective exhibition features diverse work, including graffiti, video art, photography, installation and more by a group of emerging artists. Challenged by Mekawi to answer the question “What are your most memorable moments recalled in recent years?” this bunch of contemporary artists set out to unleash their recent memories in the form of art. Among the artists participating in this exhibition are Mina Nasr (drawing on the wall), the Mona Liza Bridges (graffiti), Basem Samir (graphic photography), among others.
11 Mahmoud Bassiouny, Downtown Cairo
Exhibition runs until 14 March
Clouds for Sale: Xavier Puigmarti at Mashrabia Gallery
'Making Clouds' by Xavier Puigmarti
Spanish artist Xavier Puigmarti, whose work highlights the effects of technology on contemporary global society, is inspired by the hyper-connectivity social networks impose on our lives. His latest collection of paintings entitled 'Clouds for Sale' is being exhibited this month at Mashrabia Gallery.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown Cairo
Exhibition opened on 17 February and runs until 14 March
CMYK: Mutaz Elemam at Tache Art Gallery
Painting by Mutaz Elemam
Following a five-day pop-up exhibition at Zamalek’s Left Bank during the last week of February, paintings by Sudanese artist Mutaz Elemam are showcased at Tache Art gallery in Designopolis. This series of paintings is overflowing with rich and vibrant colour, a key characteristic of Elemam’s work. 'CMYK' is curated by Maie Yanni in collaboration with Tache Art.
Exhibition runs until 17 March
S-139 Designopolis Km 38 of the Alexandria Desert Road, Sheikh Zayed City, Cairo
Silence of Tunes: Hend El Falafly at Safarkhan Art Gallery
Pencil drawing by Hend El Falafly
In 'Silence of Tunes', emerging artist Hend El-Falafly explores the female body in pencil, expressing the changing dynamics of female identity in Egypt and the Middle East.
6 Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition runs until 20 March
Recording Against Regimes: Revolutionary video art and film at Darb 1718
Darb 1718 Contemporary Art and Culture Centre hosts an exhibition entitled 'Recording Against Regimes', which will explore the role of visual technology in the context of socio-political change, through showcasing video art and films generated in Poland in the 1980s, Germany in the 1990s and in post-revolution Egypt. Read more 
here
.
Kasr El-Shamee' Street, El-Fakhareen – Old Cairo
Exhibition opens 6 March and runs until 21 March
At a Crossroad: Collective Exhibition at Picasso Art Gallery
Painting by Nermine Hakeem
A collective painting exhibition featuring works by Abdel-Aziz El-Gendy, Abdel-Rahim Shahin, Ali Dessouki, Effat Hosny, Mahmoud Hamed and Nermine Hakeem opens this month at the Picasso Art Gallery.
30 Hassan Assem Street, from Brazil Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition opens 10 March and runs until 26 March
On My Forest Land: Hala Abu Shady at Mashrabia Gallery
'On the Beach' by Hala Abu Shady
In 'On My Forest Land', visual artist Hala Abu Shady tackles issues of heritage and identity across Mediterranean societies. Intrigued by symbols and images of Egyptian society and using photographs of herself, and pictures from Facebook and Twitter, the artist produced a show of photomontages and sound art that aims to capture the change and multiculturalism that characterises contemporary society.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown Cairo
Exhibition opens on 17 March and runs until 11 April
Impulsive Expressionism II: Omar El-Nagdi at Al-Masar Gallery
A solo exhibition by prominent contemporary artist Omar El-Nagdi entitled 'Impulsive Expressionism' features paintings carrying icons from folkloric Egyptian traditions.
Baehler's Mansion 157b, 26 July Street, side entrance on Isaac Jacob Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition opens on 10 March and runs until 11 April
Passing Faces: Kareem El-Qurity at The Art Lounge
'Faces' by Kareem El-Qurity
Inspired as always by the dynamism of the Egyptian street and by the faces he encounters on Cairo’s sidewalks and public buses, Kareem El-Qurity returns this month with an exhibition entitled 'Passing Faces', featuring compelling portraits that poignantly reflect the plights of Egypt’s citizens.
Baehler's Mansion 157b, 26 July Street, side entrance on Isaac Jacob Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Exhibition opens on 10 March and runs until 11 April
 
 