El-Hodoud outclass toothless Ahly in biggest-ever victory
Haras El-Hodoud clinch their first win ever against Ahly in the Egyptian league after thrashing the recent African Super Cup winners 3-0 on Thursday
This loss is the heaviest Egyptian league defeat for Ahly since 2007 when the African Champions lost to Ismaily 3-0 in Cairo.  
In a night to forget, the defending champions threw away their lead in Group A to their hosts, who managed to capitalise on their visitors' defensive howlers.
First, Ahmed Shedid Qenawy made a short back-pass that was intercepted by striker Ahmed Hassan Mekki, who scored the opener after 5 minutes.
Then Moetaz Eno doubled the lead in the beginning of the second half after a poorly-cleared ball, and finally unmarked Mekki completed the rout from close range in the 78th minute. 
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry had to play without key central midfielders Hossam Ashour and Shehab Eddine Ahmed, both injured, and their absence seemed to be devastating.
Rami Rabea  and youngster Mahmoud "Trezeguet" Hassan  who had his first starting role this season couldn't provide the compactness and parsimony the team needed.
But the military side's victory over Ahly was fully deserved, even if the visitors gave them a big helping hand.
Haras El-Hodoud revealed quickly their intention to clinch the three points of the game with a close-range header from striker Ahmed Hassan Mekki denied by keeper Sherif Ekramy  in the third minute of the game.
Two minutes later Mekki snatched a short pass from Ahly’s defender Ahmed Shedid Qenawy who tried to return the ball to his keeper, rounded Ekramy and slid the ball into the empty net.
The in-form striker forced Ekramy to another heroic save as he skipped past defender Mohamed Naguib to strike from close range.
Ahly seemed to be regaining their composure at the half hour mark and seemed to be closing on the equaliser, but poor efforts from strikers Emad Meteb and Ahmed Abdel-Zaher kept them trailing in the scoreline at the break.  
Just after the interval young midfielder Mahmoud Hassan was sent on a one-on-one with the keeper, but his ball went over the bar.
Haras El-Hodoud reacted quickly on scoring their second goal, thanks to a nice 25-yard shot from Ahly’s former midfielder Moataz Eno, who picked up a bad clearance from Rami Rabea.    
Ahly attacked en masse trying to bounce back and coach Hossam El-Badry brought in all his attacking cards - Mauritanian forward Dominique Da Silva, striker El-Sayed Hamdy and forward Ahmed Shoukry.
Mekki hit again as he coolly finished off a low cross from Ahmed Sabry, who dribbled past Qenawy in the 79th minute.
Following their victory, Haras El-Hodoud advanced to the first place in Group A on goal differences, as the military club, Ahly and ENPPI  all have 9 points.  
For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at 
@AO Sports
 and on Facebook at
 
AhramOnlineSports
)
 