Hussein: Muslim Brotherhood Did Not Intervene in Presidency Nor Government Affairs
Egypt Brotherhood leader Mahmoud Hussein reaffirms that the group did not intervene in the affairs of the presidency or the government and assures legal status of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Mahmoud Hussein, Muslim Brotherhood Secretary-General, said that rioters were trying to attack sensitive areas to attract the media, in order to give an inaccurate picture of the situation in Egypt, amid weak security responses due to the violent developments in which Molotov cocktails and weapons were being used.
In an interview with Satellite TV channel ‘Al-Jazeera Live – Egypt’, Hussein added: "The Egyptian people support the police so as to stop acts of violence, vandalism and lawlessness. The Muslim Brotherhood did not participate in popular committees taking over the duties of the police".
Hussein denied the Brotherhood was pleased with recent police strikes which give the group the opportunity to go out into the street, stressing that the Brotherhood denounces any strike or protest that disrupts production and the interests of citizens.
"Restructuring of the police service is a matter for the government. The Brotherhood did not provide any vision or perception of such internal restructuring as rumored. In fact, all rumors about the intervention of the Muslim Brotherhood in government affairs have no basis in truth, and are totally unacceptable."
In response to a question about rumors claiming intervention by Khairat Al-Shater in a number of important issues, Hussein stressed that there were desperate attempts to tarnish the image Al-Shater, adding that neither businessman Hassan Malik nor Khairat Al-Shater were doing any deals or transactions on behalf of the government or the Presidency, demanding that those who have any evidence of any wrongful activities to come forward and submit such evidence to relevant authorities immediately.
Hussein criticized the performance of the media in Egypt, adding that the Brotherhood cannot devote its resources to responding to rumors and lies constantly circulated by hostile media against the group.
Hussein also called on those who talk about Ikhwanization of the state – claiming that the President employed dozens of thousands of Brotherhood members – to provide evidence or reveal the names of only 3000 Brotherhood members who were appointed under President Morsi, describing Ikhwanization claims as baseless allegations that simply aim to create chaos and confusion.
The Brotherhood Secretary-General criticized desperate attempts to cause strife between the armed forces and the Muslim Brotherhood through fabrication of false allegations and utter lies.
With regard to Dr. Hisham Qandil’s government, Hussein stressed that its performance is modest because of the numerous, mostly-artificial obstacles thrown daily in its way, pointing that the decision to change the government belongs with the Presidency and not the Muslim Brotherhood or its political wing, the FJP.
Hussein further pointed that the Brotherhood will reconcile its legal status immediately after the new NGO law is passed, stressing that the group is funded exclusively from the pockets of its members, and that it receives no funding from abroad or from anyone outside its membership; and called on anyone who has evidence to the contrary to submit it to the Public Prosecutor.
 
 