Katatni: Freedom and Justice Party Welcomes All Constructive Ideas
Katatni urges all Egyptians to close ranks behind elected President in order to achieve required security, prosperity and dignity.
 Dr. Mohamed Saad Katatni, Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) Chairman, said: "We believe that dealing with any country must be based on common interests. This is the right of the Egyptian people that we have to honor – that we serve their interests, not any other party".
Dr. Katatni further said: "The FJP realizes the importance of the precarious phase Egypt is going through right now. A sincere nationwide concerted effort is urgently needed to take the country out of the transitional bottleneck. We certainly welcome any Egyptian’s contribution, from inside or outside the FJP – helpful ideas and initiatives. We will surely send feasible ideas to executive bodies for implementation.
"The FJP has been endeavoring to face up to the counter-revolution. What has been achieved so far is no small feat, considering the long-accumulated corruption and flagrancy in certain state institutions."
Katatni further added: "The FJP has been sending delegations to India, China, South Africa, Japan and Singapore, to learn from their experiences and expertise and to transfer what works for Egypt to benefit Egyptians. Recently, I personally visited Japan and Germany. Yesterday, we received several foreign delegations to benefit from their investment ideas in Egypt. However, development also depends on maintaining democratic process and political stability.
"We have made no alliances so far with any parties to contest upcoming parliamentary elections."
Katatni also pointed that there would be coordination with some Egyptian figures of social weight to contest the election. He also denied the existence of any coordination or alliances with symbols of the dissolved National Democratic Party or any Shiite figures on FJP candidate lists, adding that those rumors are intolerable electoral propaganda.
"The FJP is keen to put women at the top of its candidate lists, to place a good percentage of them in Parliament, in addition to having 30 percent young candidates under 40 years of age.
"The FJP has finished preparing the final lists of candidates for the parliamentary elections. But it stresses respect for the Administrative Court ruling on the election law."