Egypt's Elmohamady wants to play in Brazil
Egypt and Hull City winger dreams of booking a place in the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, praising Bradley's leadership for recent matches
Egypt right winger Ahmed Elmohamady who plays for English first division side Hull City revealed that he and his teammates are working hard to reach the 2014 World Cup, which will take place in Brazil; they face Zimbabwe in Group G Match Day 3 of the qualifiers on Tuesday.
“Our dream is to play in Brazil in the World Cup,” Elmohamady was quoted as saying on Cafonline
Egypt are currently at the top of Group G of the CAF World Cup qualifiers with six points from two games, three ahead of Guinea. Zimbabwe and Mozambique have one point each.
“We won our first two games in the qualifiers so far and beating Zimbabwe means we’re on the right track to make our dream a reality. This is a crucial game and we have to win whatever it takes,” he added.
Egypt will host Zimbabwe on 26 March with 30.000 fans attending the match; this would be an exceptional move by the Egyptian interior ministry as they have only allowed a maximum of three thousand spectators to attend matches since the Port Said stadium tragedy last year.
“I hope the fans will come in numbers to support us against Zimbabwe. Recently we played either away or behind closed doors and that affected us a lot,"
"Our supporters’ presence will be like magic and will motivate us to win this game. I know only 30,000 fans can attend because of security measures, but still this is better than nothing. I hope to see 30,000 ones in full voice in the stands,” Elmohamady stated.
The 25-year-old Egypt and Hull star praised the performance of American manager Bob Bradley for leading the team topping their group in the qualifiers.
“Bradley knows well what he’s doing. He shares with us the World Cup dream, and is giving all what he’s got to fulfill this dream, despite the difficulties he’s facing,"
"I believe he deserves full support from the officials, fans and from all the players till we achieve World Cup qualification in 24 years,”
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 