Cairo's El Fit Fitness Festival: Sports activities for all ages
El Fit Fitness Festival will host fitness challenges and sports activities for all ages on 23 February in Cairo's Smart Village
El-Fit Fitness Festival will take place on 23 of February, starting 10am at Smart Club in Smart Village, with a host of activities that promises an enjoyable experience for all ages and family members.
A variety of fitness activities in Egypt has been trending lately, encouraging athletes and sponsors to organise events that intertwine fitness challenges and sport activities with the concept of having fun and thrill for all ages.
Ahram Online talked to Sirag El Din Magdi, one of the eight founders of the festival about the initiative. "All eight of us were very athletic; sports was pretty much part of our lives. The idea began when we noticed that sport challenges and competitions are beginning to trend in Egypt, as they are worldwide. So, we thought of organising an event that brings together those interested in testing their fitness levels and having fun at the same time," he said.
"When they proposed the idea to others, people showed interest of inviting also those close to them to watch or participate," Magdi said. "So, gradually the event turned into a host of activities in which everybody will find a point of interest or enjoyment, including kids who have a corner dedicated to their age.”
The events include many fitness activities in which participants can compete, show off their capabilities or merely experiment with something new.
People will be provided with a variety of activities, some of which are kickboxing, pilates, yoga, and a Zumba marathon, in which Zumba gurus in Egypt will take part.
Various athletic communities in Egypt will be on the scene that day. Bikers from the Global Biking Initiative in Egypt will ride from Lebanon Street in Mohandeseen to the location of the event. The Cairo Runners group will participate as well.
There will be music to entertain the attendees and healthy snacks and beverages for those who want to recharge their energy!
Magdi marvels over the fact that the reaction of people was more than encouraging. This reflects a deep interest among Egyptians to lead a healthier lifestyle.
He also points out that one of the highlights of the event will be a challenging competition in which one male, female, and group will hold the title of 'El-Fit,' and be awarded a money prize. No details of the challenge were revealed.
The entry fee is LE50 for adults and free of charge for those under the age of 12.
 
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 