Iron linked to reduced risk of severe PMS
If you up your iron intake to about 22mg every day you can ease premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms significantly
Women who get a little more than the recommended daily amount of iron in their diets may be less likely to get a more severe form of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), according to a new study.
Researchers followed about 3,000 women over 10 years and found that those who consumed more than 20 milligrams (mg) per day of iron sources were 30 percent to 40 percent less likely to develop PMS than women who got less of the mineral.
"Most previous studies of PMS have focused on effective treatments and factors that differ between women who have PMS and those who don't," said Elizabeth Bertone-Johnson, the study's lead author from the University of Massachusetts in Amherst.
"We were interested in looking further at some specific minerals," she added, noting that her team had previously studied the relationship between vitamin intake and PMS.
For the new study, the researchers limited their analysis to PMS in which symptoms such as breast tenderness, bloating, depression and anxiety are so severe they "substantially impair life activities and social relationships."
 
Each woman completed three food questionnaires sent to them over the next 10 years, which asked how often they were eating 131 different types of foods and supplements.
The researchers then compared the diets of the 1,057 women who went on to develop severe PMS during the study period to the diets of the 1,968 women who did not.
Overall, eating a diet that provided about 22mg of iron every day was linked to a 33 percent decrease in a woman's risk of developing PMS during those 10 years, compared to the women who ate the least amount of iron - about 10mg.
Those 22mg are a little more than the 18mg of iron per day that's recommended for adult women, according to the researchers.
Even greater iron consumption was tied to an even larger drop in risk for PMS, but some of the women were eating diets with too much of the mineral.
"I think our message - based on these data - is meeting the (recommended daily amount) for iron seems to have a significantly lower risk for PMS. We don't want to recommend women take the upper limit (of 45 mg), because of potential adverse consequences," Bertone-Johnson said.
 
(For more Life & Style news and updates, follow us on Twitter:
@AhramLifestyle
or our
Facebook page
)
 