Cash-strapped Zamalek seeking to maintain fine league start
Zamalek are eyeing a fourth consecutive league victory despite constant financial problems
Zamalek have made a bright start to their Egyptian Premier League campaign but their impressive shows are overshadowed by constant financial problems which are threatening to derail their progress.
The cash-strapped Cairo side, who meet Petrojet on Thursday, garnered maximum points from their first three league games after defeating Ittihad, Ittihad El-Shorta and Dakhleya.
They are joint leaders of Group B with nine points as they seek to end a league drought stretching back to 2004.
However, they are plagued by financial troubles which prompted the players to strike last week and infuriated Brazilian coach Jorvan Vieira.
“The Zamalek management does not respect deals, and does not fulfil promises,” Vieira, under whom the club have made their best league start since 2003, told reporters earlier this week.
Zamalek players complain they have not received their salaries for months but made light of their dispute with the board to produce a string of superb displays characterized by free-flowing football.
They are also buoyed by their 7-0 thumping of Chad’s Gazelle in the first leg of the African Champions League preliminary round last Sunday.
The White Knights’ main striker Ahmed Gaafar has shrugged off a minor injury to make the team’s squad for the Petrojet game, which will take place at the military-owned Air Defence Stadium in Cairo.
Petrojet also made a fine start to their campaign, collecting four points from their first two matches.
“That game will be very difficult, our opponents are very good,” Vieira said.
In a new two-group league format, the winners of the two groups will advance to play a mini-league with only home fixtures to determine the champion. The competition is being played behind closed doors at military-owned stadiums due to security concerns.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at 
@AO Sports
 
and on Facebook at 
AhramOnlineSports
)
 