Culture Events: Picks for the Weekend
This weekend is packed with culture events of all sorts, from films, performances, exhibitions and two festivals. Check out Ahram Online's recommendations for Thursday through Sunday(21-24 March)
Cairo Jazz Festival opens in Al-Azhar Park at 7pm
This whole weekend Cairo Jazz Festival is bringing a selection of renowned local and international artists to Al-Azhar Park and Darb 1718. Tonight's performances include 
Dina El-Wadidi
, Ribab Fusion (Morocco), Kristina Tuomi (Germany), Ali El-Farouk Trio featuring Karam Mourad (Egypt / Canada) and last but not least Brazilian artist Gilberto Gil at 9.30pm. Find the full detailed programme 
here
.
Al-Azhar Park - Salah Salem Road, Cairo / Darb 1718 - Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Cairo
Bedouin music: Jerry-Can Band
 
at Mastaba Centre at 9pm
El-Mastaba Centre for Egyptian Folk Music brings the Jerry-Can Band all the way from Sinai for a night of authentic Bedouin music.
El-Tabnoura Hall, 30A El-Balasa Street, Abdeen, Downtown, Cairo
Passing Faces
 
exhibition by Kareem El-Qurity at The Art Lounge
Inspired as always by the dynamism of the Egyptian street and by the faces he encounters on Cairo’s sidewalks and public buses, Kareem El-Qurity returns this month with an exhibition entitled
Passing Faces
, featuring compelling portraits that poignantly reflect the plight of Egyptians. The exhibition runs until 11 April.
Baehler's Mansion 157b, 26 July Street, side entrance on Isaac Jacob Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Friday 22 March
Cairo Jazz Festival at Al-Azhar Park and Darb 1718
This whole weekend Cairo Jazz Festival is bringing a selection of renowned local and international artists to Al-Azhar Park and Darb 1718. Tonight's performances include 
Ektekasat
, Neil Cowley Trio (England), Miguel Amando Group (Portugal) and many more. Find the full programme 
here
.
Al-Azhar Park - Salah Salem Road, Cairo / Darb 1718 - Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Cairo
The Merry Widow
 
Operetta at the Cairo Opera House at 8pm
The experience includes beautiful music and an engaging plot, typical to the operetta spirit, where farce meets romance, and after several incidents where a fan plays an important role, the viewer is treated to a happy ending. The production will be performed by soloists from the Cairo Opera Company, the Cairo Opera Orchestra conducted by Hisham Gabr, the Cairo Opera Choir with Aldo Magnato as choir master, and the Cairo Opera Ballet Company. The director of the operetta is Abdallah Saad. The performance will also take place on 24 and 25 March. Read more 
here
.
Main Hall, Cairo Opera House, Zamalek, Cairo
Sharhabeel Ahmed concert in El-Sawy Culturewheel at 8pm
Renowned Sudanese musician Sharhabeel Ahmed takes the stage at the culturewheel bringing his audience a night of reggae and jazz mixed with traditional Sudanese music.
Wisdom Hall, 26 July Street, Zamalek, Cairo
Aya Metwalli concert at Beit El-Raseef at 8pm
Young independent musician Aya Metwalli brings her acoustic guitar, soft angelic voice, original lyrics and compositions to the stage. Building an audience slowly but surely, the young artist has been performing small shows over the past year and has shared the stage with Maii Waleed and Yosra El-Hawary several times. Read more 
here
.
Street 151, off Street 9, next to Midan El-Horreya, after El-Ezaby Pharmacy and in front of National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Maadi, Cairo
Saturday 23 March
Cairo Jazz Festival in Al-Azhar Park and Darb 1718
Tonight's performances feature several artists, the most renowned of which is Ziad Rahbani. Find more programme details 
here
.
Al-Azhar Park - Salah Salem Road, Cairo / Darb 1718 - Qasr Al-Shamee Street, Al-Fakhareen (behind the Hanging Church and the Amr Mosque), Cairo
El-Ghouri Tanoura Group at the Wekalet El-Ghouri at 7:30pm
Expect traditional dance, vibrant music and colourful performances by El-Ghouri Dance Group this Saturday. They play every Saturday, Monday and Wednesday.
3 Mohamed Abdou Street, behind Al-Azhar Mosque, Cairo
Cairo Symphony Orchestra at Cairo Opera House at 8pm
The Cairo Symphony Orchestra conducted by Julian Clayton will perform works inspired by Egypt: 
Egyptian March
 by Johann Strauss II, 
La Mort de
 
Cléopâtre
 (Death of Cleopatra) by Herlioz Berliz, Camille Saint-Saëns' Concerto for Piano and Orchestra No. 5 in F Major is nicknamed 'The Egyptian' and 
Egyptian Nights
 Op. 61, a symphonic suite by Sergey Prokofiev. Soloists for the evening will be soprano Dalia Farouk and pianist Magda Emara. More info 
here
Main Hall, Cairo Opera House, Zamalek, Cairo
A7A Portraits
 
photography exhibition by Beshir Wagih in Photopia
The exhibition presents a series of portraits and mixed media installations challenging the colloquial and historical meaning of the word 'A7A,' a pejorative slang term in Egyptian Arabic which over time has become taboo. Watch our video story of the opening 
here
.
15 El Somal Street, El Korba, Heliopolis, Cairo
Sunday 24 March
Opening event for
 
Hal Badeel
Festival
 
at Townhouse Gallery at 7pm
A new initiative by young artists to utilise existing spaces for art, 
Hal Badeel
 (Alternative Solution) will run from today until 17 April and will feature several performances and films. Tonight's opening event will host a film screening of 
Ahad Sokan Al-Madina
 (One of the city's residents) by Adham El-Sherief, followed by electronic music performance called 
Shorba
 by Mohamed Shafik and Nadah El-Shazly and finally a concert by Mashrou' Koral (The Choir Project).
The Factory Space, Townhouse Gallery, 10 Nabrawy St., off Champollion St., Downtown, Cairo
On My Forest Land
 
exhibition by Hala Abu Shady at the Mashrabiya Gallery
 
In
On My Forest Land
, visual artist Hala Abu Shady tackles issues of heritage and identity across Mediterranean societies. Intrigued by symbols and images of Egyptian society and using photographs of herself, along with pictures from Facebook and Twitter, the artist produced a show of photomontages and sound art that aims to capture the change and multiculturalism that characterises contemporary society. The exhibition will run until 11 April.
8 Champollion Street, Downtown, Cairo
 
Follow Arts and Culture updates on Twitter: 
@AhramOnlineArts
 and on our Facebook page: 
Ahram Online: Arts and Culture
 