Relive: Barcelona 4-0 AC Milan (European Champions League)
Lionel Messi scores twice as Barcelona crush AC Milan 4-0 to stage a remarkable comeback and reach the Champions League quarter-final with a 4-2 aggregate victory
Left-back Jordi Alba runs onto a cross from Alexis to break clear and slot home with aplomb as Barcelona put the result beyond doubt.
The referee adds three minutes of stoppage time.
Milan are failing to break the offside trap. Barcelona are on the verge of a remarkable comeback.
Barcelona are still holding firm. Milan are unable to create genuine goal-scoring opportunities.
Everything to play for. Six minutes and the match is approaching some exciting moments.
Barca winger Pedro is replaced with wing-back Adriano.
What a chance for Milan!! Robinho almost finds the net but his close-range effort following a low cross is blocked by a desperate tackle from Jordi Alba.
Milan pour forward in a bid to score a decisive goal.
Barcelona's veteran defender Carles Puyol replaces another central defender in Javier Mascherano.
With 15 minutes remaining, Barca are in pole position to qualify. But they will have to be cautious as a solitary Milan goal will be enough to lift the Italians through.
Another substitution for Milan, Flamini is replaced with former Barcelona forward Bojan Krkic.
Barcelona striker David Villa, who scored the superb third goal, is replaced with Chilean winger Alexis Sanchez.
A poor Messi free-kick strikes the wall.
In the day's other round of 16 clash, Schalke score against Galatasaray
. However, Galatasaray still have the upper hand via the away goal rule.
Milan waste a chance! A back-heel effort from Flamini strikes a defender after a goal-mouth scramble.
Milan relatively improve, but they need more than Robinho's step-overs to find the net.
At the other end, a cross from Abate goes begging as Milan make a rare foray forward.
A powerful dipping volley by Messi goes over the crossbar.
Brazilian forward Robinho replaces midfielder Ambrosini and Sulley Muntari comes on instead of Niang.
Despite Barca's dominance, Milan need just one goal to advance with the away-goal rule.
Barcelona are in total control. They are likely to add the fourth, given Milan's dreadful defensive blunders.
A deft through pass from midfield maestro Xavi eludes a sliding challenge from Constant and finds David Villa, whose trademark left-foot curler goes into the back of the net.
Milan defender Mexes will not play in the quarter-final first leg if Milan progress after receiving a yellow card.
Barcelona need one goal to go ahead, while a goal for Milan would leave the Catalans with an uphill climb.
Messi, whose display tonight is silencing critics questioning his recent performances, is keeping Milan defenders on their toes with his mesmerizing runs.
Lionel Messi makes a darting run, skips past two defenders and jinks into the area but his weak, low shot is collected by Abbiati. Barcelona begin from where they left off in the first half.
In the day's other round of 16 clash, Galatasaray secure a
In the day's other round of 16 clash, Galatasaray equalise against Schalke.
Barcelona level the aggregate score, they are now firm favourites to go through. Milan were unlucky not to make the most of their counter attacks.
Milan are immediately punished for their miss as wizard Messi scores his second of the night! Iniesta steals possession from Mexes and feeds Messi, whose low shot goes past Abbiati from the edge of the area.
What a chance for Milan!! youngster M'Baye Niang goes one on one but his low shot strikes the post.
Milan's defence looks tight now. They are gradually making up for a poor start.
One of those attempts see El Shaarawy break clear after skipping past Pique, but his weak shot from inside the area is easily collected by Valdes.
Milan are making some shy counter-attacks, which are yet to yield any tangible efforts.
Barcelona ease off a bit, giving Milan some breathing space after a period of relentless pressure.
In the day's other round of 16 tie, German side Schalke are enjoying a
Messi appears in a much better shape after taking a deeper role this time around.
Ghanian midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng is booked for a challenge on Iniesta.
Milan are desperately clearing numerous crosses from the right and left. A barrage of attacks from the Catalans.
Xavi comes close with a powerful low that that narrowly misses the target. Barcelona pile on pressure.
Barcelona attacked with panache in the first quarter of an hour, deservedly opening the scoring via an impressive Messi strike. They are totally outplaying a Milan side who have so far failed to replicate their resolute first-leg defensive display.
Barcelona squander a golden opportunity to double their lead!! A powerful Iniesta volley from a Messi knock-down is tipped by the keeper onto the bar. Messi follows-up with a header that hits the side netting.
Barcelona have a penalty claim waved away by the referee after Pedro falls down in the area.
However, despite Milan's wasted chance, Barcelona look the more likely to score. The visitors will have to withstand huge pressure for long periods.
Stephan El Shaarawy wastes a chance to hit Barcelona on the break!! He poorly controls a long ball that finds him unmarked, and his subsequent poor shot doesn't trouble the keeper.
World Player of the Year Lionel Messi exchanges passes with Xavi on the edge of the area and sends a powerful left-foot curler that leaves Milan keeper Christian Abbiati with no chance. A dream start for the Catalans!
As expected, Barcelona lay siege to Milan's area from the very beginning. Will Barcelona be able to score an early goal?
Both teams step onto the pitch amid huge roars from the home Barcelona supporters.
Both sides are warming up, around 20 minutes before kick-off.
AC Milan's starting line-up: 32-Christian Abbiati; 20-Abate Ignazio, 5-Philippe Mexes, 17-Cristian Zapata, 21-Kevin Constant; 23-Massimo Ambrosini, 18-Riccardo Montolivo, 16-Mathieu Flamini; 19-M'Baye Niang, 92-Stephan El Shaarawy, 10-Kevin Prince-Boateng.
Barcelona's starting line-up: 1-Victor Valdes; 2-Daniel Alves, 3-Gerard Pique, 14-Javier Mascherano, 18-Jordi Alba; 6-Xavi, 16-Sergio Busquets, 8-Andres Iniesta; 17-Pedro, 10-Lionel Messi, 7-David Villa.
Barcelon are looking to win the double: Spanish La Liga and Champions League. They were eliminated from the King's Cup at the hands of arch-rivals Real Madrid.
AC Milan's rising star Stephan El Shaarawy did not score in the first leg but caused constant problems for Barca's backline with his pace. The Italians are expected to rely on him in their counter attacks at the Nou Camp.
Barcelona are expected to attack from the outset at the vibrant Nou Camp as they seek to overturn a two-goal deficit. AC Milan will have to keep their defence tight throughout the match if they are to seal surprise package to the last eight.
20:00
AC Milan only have the Champions League to play for after being knocked out of the Italian Cup. They also virtually lost hope to catch Serie A leaders Juventus.
19:00
Milan won the Champions League seven times, just two behind record winners Real Madrid. Barcelona, who won the competition twice in the last four years, have four titles under their belt.
18:30
Lionel Messi, Barcelona's most lethal weapon, produced a subdued performance in the first-leg. However, the Catalans will rely on him to deliver the goods against AC Milan.
Barca are also expecting to have playmaker Xavi available after he returned to training this week following a minor muscle strain.
The Argentine star Lionel Messi will be on the spot in attempt to accomplish Barca's hard mission as the Italian giants were able to clinch a 2-0 victory in the first leg.
Probable teams:
Barcelona:
13-Jose Manuel Pinto; 2-Daniel Alves, 3-Gerard Pique, 14-Javier Mascherano, 18-Jordi Alba; 6-Xavi, 16-Sergio Busquets, 4-Cesc Fabregas; 17-Pedro, 10-Lionel Messi, 8-Andres Iniesta
AC Milan:
32-Christian Abbiati; 2-Mattia De Sciglio, 76-Mario Yepes, 17-Cristian Zapata, 21-Kevin Constant; 23-Massimo Ambrosini, 18-Riccardo Montolivo, 4-Sulley Muntari; 19-M'Baye Niang, 92-Stephan El Shaarawy, 10-Kevin Prince-Boateng
Read the full preview
here
The match kicks off at 19:45 GMT (21:45 CLT).
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 