Gamaa Islamiya electoral alliances to be separate from MB, FJP and Nour: Aboud El-Zomor
The leader of Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya says the group has prepared an independent list for upcoming legislative elections, though some coordination with Islamist forces may occur
Aboud El-Zomor, Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya leader and member of the Shura Council, stated Sunday to Ahram Arabic website that "Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya electoral alliances will separate from the Muslim Brotherhood, Freedom and Justice Party, and the Salafist El-Nour Party."
El-Zomor explained that Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya has prepared an independent list for the upcoming House of Representatives (formerly the People's Assembly) elections.
He added, however, that the group will coordinate with the Muslim Brotherhood in a number of electoral circles and in others will seek to form alliances with Islamic forces such as the new Salafist El-Watan Party, the Salafist Hazemoon movement, and revolutionary youth groups.
President Mohamed Morsi declared last week the date for upcoming parliamentary elections, recently modified to start 22 April. The elections will be held across four stages over a time period of two months. 
Several political figures, including head of the Constitution Party and founding member of the National Salvation Front (NSF) Mohamed ElBaradei, have called for boycotting the process, saying no consensus has been reached over electoral regulations and timeframes. 
The Egyptian Popular Current, led by Nasserist politician Hamdeen Sabbahi, stated last week it would boycott the elections regardless of guarantees, in objection to the current "undemocratic regime."
In response, El-Zomor described boycotting the elections "a wrong decision" that will be a missed opportunity "to be a part of the political and parliamentary work."
"This will make the boycotting parties to revert to violence, which we don’t want them to pursue, and they will not like to be a part of," he added. 
Egypt's parliamentary elections, previously scheduled to begin 27 April, have been brought forward to start 22 April, according to a statement issued by the presidency's online media outlets late Saturday.
The decision came after members of Egypt's Coptic Christian minority criticised the timing of the elections because they would coincide with the Easter holiday.
 