Civil disobedience launches in Egyptian Nile Delta cities of Mansoura and Mahalla
Opposition leaders publish fliers and Facebook statement defending their methods, saying civil disobedience is a legitimate means to express grievances; industrial cities join Sunday by blocking roads
Protesters enter into civil disobedience in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura on Sunday, blocking the main entrances to the city and the central governorate building.
This comes following late night clashes on Saturday in the Daqahliya governorate between protesters and the police after protesters blocked the main roads in the city and built a brick wall to halt traffic in and out of Mansoura.
Hundreds were reported to be demonstrating by 10am Sunday in the action called for by a number of local political groups and activists.
The movement published a statement on Facebook and in printed fliers Saturday titled "They are laughing at you," that defends their actions against critics. Strike leaders have been attacked for affecting the economy and production, but, they argue, civil disobedience is, in fact, a legitimate and customary means by which citizens can peacefully express their grievances.
"For a long time our demands have gone unnoticed through other peaceful protests and the time now comes to launch civil disobedience to reach our goal of getting rid of the current regime," the statement reads, which refrains from identifying who is making the call.
The statement specified for residents to refuse to pay electricity bills, and encouraged them to strike from work and participate in any other action that would protest the "injustice against your revolution and your dignity and your being."
Recently, the Suez Canal city of Port Said practiced civil disobedience for almost a week over increased marginalisation and the death sentences handed to 21 of the city's residents in relation to attacks in a football stadium during a match in Port Said stadium.
Moreover, on Sunday the industrial Nile Delta city of Mahalla in Gharbiya governorate civil disobedience was also called for, with hundreds going on strike and blocking the main entrances to the city.
Tahsin city in Daqahliya governorate went into civil disobedience in September 2012, which marked the first time in almost a century for Egypt.
 