Preview: Egypt's Ahly to face Kenya's Tusker with makeshift midfield
Seven-time champions Ahly open the defence of their African Champions League at Kenya's Tusker on Saturday
Title holders Ahly will have to play with a makeshift midfield when they kick off the defence of their African Champions League title away to Kenya's Tusker on Saturday.
The Cairo club, who defied to odds to win last year's trophy despite a lengthy stoppage of Egyptian football, said on their website that natural playmaker Abdallah El-Said will partner Hossam Ashour in the heart of the team's midfield in the first leg of the competition's round of 32.
The depleted side are missing skipper Hossam Ghaly and central midfielder Shehab Ahmed through injury. Fellow midfielders Rami Rabeia and Mahmoud Hassan are also unavailable after joining up with Egypt for the U-20 African Championship campaign.
Ahly coach Hossam El-Badry said he was unsatisfied with the state of the pitch ahead of the game, saying it could hurt the players.
The Red Devils are overwhelming favourites to advance to the last 16 but Tusker believe they can cause an upset.
"We have prepared well. I believe we are in a position to perform well because my team is motivated to face the Africa champions," Tusker coach Robert Matano told CAF's official website.
"Playing Ahly is a different ball game. We are psyched and prepared to get a convincing result to carry to Cairo in a fortnight.
"Our main target is to avoid conceding a goal. We rather get a 0-0 draw than to concede," he added.
Ahly are still struggling to cope with the loss of several key players, including versatile defender Ahmed Fathi and striker Mohamed Nagy 'Gedo' who joined English second-division side Hull City on loan last January.
The latter's absence was clearly felt as Ahly struggled for firepower upfront. New signing Ahmed Abdel-Zaher scored the winner in a recent 2-1 league victory over ENPPI but he is yet to prove he can fill the void left by Gedo.
Emad Meteb, who used to be the team's main striker, is no longer a regular player after a dip in form while Mauritania's Dominique Da Silva only makes some cameo appearances.
Ahly have recovered from a poor league start though. They are on top of Group A with 12 points after six games as they chase an eighth consecutive title.
(For more sports news and updates, follow Ahram Online Sports on Twitter at
@AO Sports
and on Facebook at
AhramOnlineSports
)
 